src/plugins/expressions/README.asciidoc, before:

[[kibana-expressions-plugin]]
== `expressions` plugin

Expression pipeline is a chain of functions that *pipe* its output to the
input of the next function. Functions can be configured using arguments provided
by the user. The final output of the expression pipeline can be rendered using
one of the *renderers* registered in `expressions` plugin.

All the arguments to expression functions need to be serializable, as well as input and output.
Expression functions should try to stay 'pure'. This makes functions easy to reuse and also 
make it possible to serialize the whole chain as well as output at every step of execution.

Expressions power visualizations in Dashboard and Lens, as well as, every
*element* in Canvas is backed by an expression.

This plugin provides methods which will parse & execute an *expression pipeline*
string for you, as well as a series of registries for advanced users who might
want to incorporate their own functions, types, and renderers into the service
for use in their own application.

=== Examples

Below is an example of serialized expression for one Canvas element that fetches 
data using `essql` function, pipes it further to `math` and `metric` functions, 
and final `render` function renders the result.

[source]
filters
| essql
  query="SELECT COUNT(timestamp) as total_errors
    FROM kibana_sample_data_logs
    WHERE tags LIKE '%warning%' OR tags LIKE '%error%'"
| math "total_errors"
| metric "TOTAL ISSUES"
  metricFont={font family="'Open Sans', Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif" size=48 align="left" color="#FFFFFF" weight="normal" underline=false italic=false}
  labelFont={font family="'Open Sans', Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif" size=30 align="left" color="#FFFFFF" weight="lighter" underline=false italic=false}
| render
[/source]

[role="screenshot"]
image::https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/9773803/74162514-3250a880-4c21-11ea-9e68-86f66862a183.png[]

=== API documentation

==== Server API
https://github.com/elastic/kibana/blob/main/docs/development/plugins/expressions/server/kibana-plugin-plugins-expressions-server.expressionsserversetup.md[Server Setup contract]
https://github.com/elastic/kibana/blob/main/docs/development/plugins/expressions/server/kibana-plugin-plugins-expressions-server.expressionsserverstart.md[Server Start contract]

==== Browser API
https://github.com/elastic/kibana/blob/main/docs/development/plugins/expressions/public/kibana-plugin-plugins-expressions-public.expressionsservicesetup.md[Browser Setup contract]
https://github.com/elastic/kibana/blob/main/docs/development/plugins/expressions/public/kibana-plugin-plugins-expressions-public.expressionsstart.md[Browser Start contract]


==== Other documentation
https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/kibana/current/canvas-function-arguments.html[See Canvas documentation about expressions]

Commit message:

Update documentation to cover comments

src/plugins/expressions/README.asciidoc, after:

[[kibana-expressions-plugin]]
== `expressions` plugin

Expression pipeline is a chain of functions that *pipe* its output to the
input of the next function. Functions can be configured using arguments provided
by the user. The final output of the expression pipeline can be rendered using
one of the *renderers* registered in `expressions` plugin.

All the arguments to expression functions need to be serializable, as well as input and output.
Expression functions should try to stay 'pure'. This makes functions easy to reuse and also 
make it possible to serialize the whole chain as well as output at every step of execution.

It is possible to add comments to expressions by starting them with a `//` sequence
or by using `/*` and `*/` to enclose multi-line comments.

Expressions power visualizations in Dashboard and Lens, as well as, every
*element* in Canvas is backed by an expression.

This plugin provides methods which will parse & execute an *expression pipeline*
string for you, as well as a series of registries for advanced users who might
want to incorporate their own functions, types, and renderers into the service
for use in their own application.

=== Examples

Below is an example of serialized expression for one Canvas element that fetches 
data using `essql` function, pipes it further to `math` and `metric` functions, 
and final `render` function renders the result.

[source]
filters
| essql
  query="SELECT COUNT(timestamp) as total_errors
    FROM kibana_sample_data_logs
    WHERE tags LIKE '%warning%' OR tags LIKE '%error%'"
| math "total_errors" // take "total_errors" column
/* Represent as a number over a label */
| metric "TOTAL ISSUES"
  metricFont={font family="'Open Sans', Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif" size=48 align="left" color="#FFFFFF" weight="normal" underline=false italic=false}
  labelFont={font family="'Open Sans', Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif" size=30 align="left" color="#FFFFFF" weight="lighter" underline=false italic=false}
| render
[/source]

[role="screenshot"]
image::https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/9773803/74162514-3250a880-4c21-11ea-9e68-86f66862a183.png[]

=== API documentation

==== Server API
https://github.com/elastic/kibana/blob/main/docs/development/plugins/expressions/server/kibana-plugin-plugins-expressions-server.expressionsserversetup.md[Server Setup contract]
https://github.com/elastic/kibana/blob/main/docs/development/plugins/expressions/server/kibana-plugin-plugins-expressions-server.expressionsserverstart.md[Server Start contract]

==== Browser API
https://github.com/elastic/kibana/blob/main/docs/development/plugins/expressions/public/kibana-plugin-plugins-expressions-public.expressionsservicesetup.md[Browser Setup contract]
https://github.com/elastic/kibana/blob/main/docs/development/plugins/expressions/public/kibana-plugin-plugins-expressions-public.expressionsstart.md[Browser Start contract]


==== Other documentation
https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/kibana/current/canvas-function-arguments.html[See Canvas documentation about expressions]
