x-pack/plugins/telemetry_collection_xpack/schema/README.md, before:

# X-Pack Telemetry Schemas

This is an extension of the [OSS Telemetry Schemas](../../../../src/plugins/telemetry/schema) to add the X-Pack-related data. The payloads described in these `.json` files must be merged to the OSS ones to get the structure of the full payload sent to the Remote Telemetry Service. All the files follow the schema convention as defined in the `usage_collection` plugin and `@kbn/telemetry-tools`.

There are currently 2 files:

- `xpack_root.json`: Defines the extra fields x-pack reports over the OSS payload defined in the `oss_root.json`.    
  Manually maintained for now because the frequency it changes is expected to be pretty low.
- `xpack_plugins.json`: The X-Pack related schema for the content that will be nested in `stack_stats.kibana.plugins`.    
  It is automatically generated by `@kbn/telemetry-tools` based on the `schema` property provided by all the registered Usage Collectors via the `usageCollection.makeUsageCollector` API.    
  More details in the [Schema field](../../usage_collection/README.md#schema-field) chapter in the UsageCollection's docs.
- `xpack_monitoring.json`: It declares the payload sent by the monitoring-sourced telemetry. The actual schema for the payload is declared under `properties.monitoringTelemetry.properties.stats.items`, but due to the general behaviour in the `@kbn/telemetry-tools`, it gets nested down in that path.

NOTE: Despite its similarities to ES mappings, the intention of these files is not to define any index mappings. They should be considered as a tool to understand the format of the payload that will be sent when reporting telemetry to the Remote Service.

## Testing

Functional tests are defined at `x-pack/test/api_integration/apis/telemetry/telemetry_local.ts`. They merge both files (+ the OSS definitions), and validates the actual output of the telemetry endpoint against the final schema.

Commit message:

[Sustainable Architecture] Telemetry schemas (#201760)
## Summary

Since we are moving code around, the schema extractor now needs to adapt
to the new directories.

This PR adds new per-solution schemas to the `.telemetryrc.json` files
and adapts FTRs accordingly.

Related https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/201653

### Checklist

- [x]
[Documentation](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/kibana/master/development-documentation.html)
was added for features that require explanation or tutorials
- [x] [Unit or functional
tests](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/kibana/master/development-tests.html)
were updated or added to match the most common scenarios

(cherry picked from commit dac87ef6fec2ff2291ea72ffe5ec00588265500a)

x-pack/plugins/telemetry_collection_xpack/schema/README.md, after:

# X-Pack Telemetry Schemas

This is an extension of the [OSS Telemetry Schemas](../../../../src/plugins/telemetry/schema) to add the X-Pack-related data. The payloads described in these `.json` files must be merged to the OSS ones to get the structure of the full payload sent to the Remote Telemetry Service. All the files follow the schema convention as defined in the `usage_collection` plugin and `@kbn/telemetry-tools`.

There are currently 7 files:

- `xpack_root.json`: Defines the extra fields x-pack reports over the OSS payload defined in the `oss_root.json`.    
  Manually maintained for now because the frequency it changes is expected to be pretty low.
- `xpack_plugins.json`: The X-Pack related schema for the content that will be nested in `stack_stats.kibana.plugins`.    
  It is automatically generated by `@kbn/telemetry-tools` based on the `schema` property provided by all the registered Usage Collectors via the `usageCollection.makeUsageCollector` API.    
  More details in the [Schema field](../../usage_collection/README.md#schema-field) chapter in the UsageCollection's docs.
- `xpack_platform.json`: Same as `xpack_plugins.json` but for collectors defined in `<ROOT_DIR>/x-pack/platform/*`.
- `xpack_observability.json`: Same as `xpack_plugins.json` but for collectors defined in `<ROOT_DIR>/x-pack/solutions/observability/*`.
- `xpack_search.json`: Same as `xpack_plugins.json` but for collectors defined in `<ROOT_DIR>/x-pack/solutions/search/*`.
- `xpack_security.json`: Same as `xpack_plugins.json` but for collectors defined in `<ROOT_DIR>/x-pack/solutions/security/*`.
- `xpack_monitoring.json`: It declares the payload sent by the monitoring-sourced telemetry. The actual schema for the payload is declared under `properties.monitoringTelemetry.properties.stats.items`, but due to the general behaviour in the `@kbn/telemetry-tools`, it gets nested down in that path.

NOTE: Despite its similarities to ES mappings, the intention of these files is not to define any index mappings. They should be considered as a tool to understand the format of the payload that will be sent when reporting telemetry to the Remote Service.

## Testing

Functional tests are defined at `x-pack/test/api_integration/apis/telemetry/telemetry_local.ts`. They merge these files (+ the [OSS definitions](../../../../src/plugins/telemetry/schema)), and validates the actual output of the telemetry endpoint against the final schema.
