# Telemetry Schemas

This list of `.json` files describes the format of the payloads sent to the Remote Telemetry Service. All the files should follow the schema convention as defined in the `usage_collection` plugin and `@kbn/telemetry-tools`, with the addition of the type `pass_through`. This additional `type` indicates Kibana sends the payload as-is from the output of an external ES query.

There are currently 4 files:

- `oss_root.json`: Defines the schema for the payload from the root keys.    
  Manually maintained for now because the frequency it changes should be pretty low.
- `oss_plugins.json`: The schema for the content that will be nested in `stack_stats.kibana.plugins`.    
  It is automatically generated by `@kbn/telemetry-tools` based on the `schema` property provided by all the registered Usage Collectors via the `usageCollection.makeUsageCollector` API.    
  More details in the [Schema field](../../usage_collection/README.md#schema-field) chapter in the UsageCollection's docs.
- `kbn_packages.json`: Same as `oss_plugins` but for collectors defined in `<ROOT_DIR>/packages/*`.
- `oss_platform.json`: Same as `oss_plugins` but for collectors defined in `<ROOT_DIR>/src/platform/*`.

NOTE: Despite its similarities to ES mappings, the intention of these files is not to define any index mappings. They should be considered as a tool to understand the format of the payload that will be sent when reporting telemetry to the Remote Service.

## Testing

Functional tests are defined at `x-pack/test/api_integration/apis/telemetry/telemetry_local.ts`. They merge all files and [the x-pack counterparts](../../../../x-pack/plugins/telemetry_collection_xpack/schema), and validates the actual output of the telemetry endpoint against the final schema.