x-pack/solutions/security/plugins/cloud_security_posture/README.md, before:

# Cloud Security Posture Kibana Plugin

Cloud Posture automates the identification and remediation of risks across cloud infrastructures

---

## Development

Read [Kibana Contributing Guide](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) for more details

## Testing

For general guidelines, read [Kibana Testing Guide](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/kibana/current/development-tests.html) for more details

### Tests

1. Unit Tests (Jest) - located in sibling files to the source code
1. [API Integration Tests](../../../../test/api_integration/apis/cloud_security_posture/config.ts)
1. [Telemetry Integration Tests](../../../../test/cloud_security_posture_api/config.ts)
1. [End-to-End Tests](../../../../test/cloud_security_posture_functional/config.ts)
1. [Serverless API Integration tests](../../../../test_serverless/api_integration/test_suites/security/config.ts)
1. [Serverless End-to-End Tests](../../../../test_serverless/functional/test_suites/security/config.ts)
1. [Cypress End-to-End Tests](../../../../test/security_solution_cypress/cypress/e2e/cloud_security_posture)


### Tools

Run **TypeScript**:

```bash
node scripts/type_check.js --project=x-pack/solutions/security/plugins/cloud_security_posture/tsconfig.json
```

Run **ESLint**:

```bash
yarn lint:es x-pack/solutions/security/plugins/cloud_security_posture
```

Run **i18n check**:
```bash
node scripts/i18n_check.js
```

> **Note**
>
> i18n should run on project scope as it checks translations files outside of our plugin.
>
> Fixes can be applied using the --fix flag

Run [**Unit Tests**](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/kibana/current/development-tests.html#_unit_testing):

```bash
yarn test:jest --config x-pack/solutions/security/plugins/cloud_security_posture/jest.config.js
```

> **Note**
>
> for a coverage report, add the `--coverage` flag, and run `open target/kibana-coverage/jest/x-pack/solutions/security/plugins/cloud_security_posture/index.html`

Run [**Integration Tests**](https://docs.elastic.dev/kibana-dev-docs/tutorials/testing-plugins#):

```bash
yarn test:ftr --config x-pack/test/api_integration/config.ts
```

Run [**End-to-End Tests**](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/kibana/current/development-tests.html#_running_functional_tests):

```bash
yarn test:ftr --config x-pack/test/cloud_security_posture_functional/config.ts
yarn test:ftr --config x-pack/test/api_integration/apis/cloud_security_posture/config.ts
yarn test:ftr --config x-pack/test/cloud_security_posture_api/config.ts
yarn test:ftr --config x-pack/test_serverless/api_integration/test_suites/security/config.ts --include-tag=cloud_security_posture
yarn test:ftr --config x-pack/test_serverless/functional/test_suites/security/config.cloud_security_posture.ts
```

Run [**End-to-End Cypress Tests**](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/tree/main/x-pack/test/security_solution_cypress/cypress):
> **Note**
>
> Run this from security_solution_cypress folder
```bash
yarn cypress:open:serverless
yarn cypress:open:ess
yarn cypress:cloud_security_posture:run:serverless
yarn cypress:cloud_security_posture:run:ess
```

#### Run **FTR tests (integration or e2e) for development**

Functional test runner (FTR) can be used separately with `ftr:runner` and `ftr:server`. This is convenient while developing tests.

For example, 

run ESS (stateful) api integration tests:
```bash
yarn test:ftr:server --config x-pack/test/api_integration/config.ts
yarn test:ftr:runner --config x-pack/test/api_integration/apis/cloud_security_posture/config.ts
```

run ESS (stateful) telemetry integration tests:
```bash
yarn test:ftr:server --config x-pack/test/cloud_security_posture_api/config.ts
yarn test:ftr:runner --config x-pack/test/cloud_security_posture_api/config.ts
```

run ESS (stateful) e2e tests:
```bash
yarn test:ftr:server --config x-pack/test/cloud_security_posture_functional/config.ts
yarn test:ftr:runner --config x-pack/test/cloud_security_posture_functional/config.ts
```

run serverless api integration tests:
```bash
yarn test:ftr:server --config x-pack/test_serverless/api_integration/test_suites/security/config.ts
yarn test:ftr:runner --config x-pack/test_serverless/api_integration/test_suites/security/config.ts --include-tag=cloud_security_posture
```

run serverless e2e tests:
```bash
yarn test:ftr:server --config x-pack/test_serverless/functional/test_suites/security/config.cloud_security_posture.ts
yarn test:ftr:runner ---config x-pack/test_serverless/functional/test_suites/security/config.cloud_security_posture.ts
```

#### Run **Cypress tests (e2e) for development**
When developing feature outside our plugin folder, instead of using FTRs for e2e test, we may use Cypress. Before running cypress, make sure you have installed it first. Like FTRs, we can run cypress in different environment, for example:

run ess e2e tests:
```bash
yarn cypress:open:ess
```

run ess Cloud Security Posture e2e tests:
```bash
yarn cypress:cloud_security_posture:run:ess
```

run serverless e2e tests:
```bash
yarn cypress:open:serverless
```

run serverless Cloud Security Posture e2e tests:
```bash
yarn cypress:cloud_security_posture:run:serverless
```

Unlike FTR where we have to set server and runner separately, Cypress handles everything in 1 go, so just running the above the script is enough to get it running

### Troubleshooting

If you encounter an error related to running machine learning code, you should add the following string `'xpack.ml.enabled=false'` under the `esTestCluster` property in the `x-pack/test/functional/config.base.js` file.

Example:
```javascript
module.exports = {
  esTestCluster: {
    // ...existing configuration...
    serverArgs: [
      // ...existing arguments...
      'xpack.ml.enabled=false', // Add this line to disable ML
    ],
  },
  // ...other configurations...
};

Commit message:

[Cloud Security ]update csp README.md file i18n instructions (#213068)
## Summary
update i18 instructions regarding how to add and remove translations.

x-pack/solutions/security/plugins/cloud_security_posture/README.md, after:

# Cloud Security Posture Kibana Plugin

Cloud Posture automates the identification and remediation of risks across cloud infrastructures

---

## Development

Read [Kibana Contributing Guide](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) for more details

## Testing

For general guidelines, read [Kibana Testing Guide](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/kibana/current/development-tests.html) for more details

### Tests

1. Unit Tests (Jest) - located in sibling files to the source code
1. [API Integration Tests](../../../../test/api_integration/apis/cloud_security_posture/config.ts)
1. [Telemetry Integration Tests](../../../../test/cloud_security_posture_api/config.ts)
1. [End-to-End Tests](../../../../test/cloud_security_posture_functional/config.ts)
1. [Serverless API Integration tests](../../../../test_serverless/api_integration/test_suites/security/config.ts)
1. [Serverless End-to-End Tests](../../../../test_serverless/functional/test_suites/security/config.ts)
1. [Cypress End-to-End Tests](../../../../test/security_solution_cypress/cypress/e2e/cloud_security_posture)


### Tools

Run **TypeScript**:

```bash
node scripts/type_check.js --project=x-pack/solutions/security/plugins/cloud_security_posture/tsconfig.json
```

Run **ESLint**:

```bash
yarn lint:es x-pack/solutions/security/plugins/cloud_security_posture
```

Run **i18n check**:
```bash
node scripts/i18n_check.js
```

> **Note**
>
> i18n should run on project scope as it checks translations files outside of our plugin.
>
> Fixes can be applied using the --fix flag
> 1. We shouldn't manually add/update/delete the localization files, nor change the translated strings.
> 2. The script will remove unused labels.
> 3. Regarding adding labels - this happens regularly and automated for the whole Kibana repository outside of our flows.


Run [**Unit Tests**](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/kibana/current/development-tests.html#_unit_testing):

```bash
yarn test:jest --config x-pack/solutions/security/plugins/cloud_security_posture/jest.config.js
```

> **Note**
>
> for a coverage report, add the `--coverage` flag, and run `open target/kibana-coverage/jest/x-pack/solutions/security/plugins/cloud_security_posture/index.html`

Run [**Integration Tests**](https://docs.elastic.dev/kibana-dev-docs/tutorials/testing-plugins#):

```bash
yarn test:ftr --config x-pack/test/api_integration/config.ts
```

Run [**End-to-End Tests**](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/kibana/current/development-tests.html#_running_functional_tests):

```bash
yarn test:ftr --config x-pack/test/cloud_security_posture_functional/config.ts
yarn test:ftr --config x-pack/test/api_integration/apis/cloud_security_posture/config.ts
yarn test:ftr --config x-pack/test/cloud_security_posture_api/config.ts
yarn test:ftr --config x-pack/test_serverless/api_integration/test_suites/security/config.ts --include-tag=cloud_security_posture
yarn test:ftr --config x-pack/test_serverless/functional/test_suites/security/config.cloud_security_posture.ts
```

Run [**End-to-End Cypress Tests**](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/tree/main/x-pack/test/security_solution_cypress/cypress):
> **Note**
>
> Run this from security_solution_cypress folder
```bash
yarn cypress:open:serverless
yarn cypress:open:ess
yarn cypress:cloud_security_posture:run:serverless
yarn cypress:cloud_security_posture:run:ess
```

#### Run **FTR tests (integration or e2e) for development**

Functional test runner (FTR) can be used separately with `ftr:runner` and `ftr:server`. This is convenient while developing tests.

For example, 

run ESS (stateful) api integration tests:
```bash
yarn test:ftr:server --config x-pack/test/api_integration/config.ts
yarn test:ftr:runner --config x-pack/test/api_integration/apis/cloud_security_posture/config.ts
```

run ESS (stateful) telemetry integration tests:
```bash
yarn test:ftr:server --config x-pack/test/cloud_security_posture_api/config.ts
yarn test:ftr:runner --config x-pack/test/cloud_security_posture_api/config.ts
```

run ESS (stateful) e2e tests:
```bash
yarn test:ftr:server --config x-pack/test/cloud_security_posture_functional/config.ts
yarn test:ftr:runner --config x-pack/test/cloud_security_posture_functional/config.ts
```

run serverless api integration tests:
```bash
yarn test:ftr:server --config x-pack/test_serverless/api_integration/test_suites/security/config.ts
yarn test:ftr:runner --config x-pack/test_serverless/api_integration/test_suites/security/config.ts --include-tag=cloud_security_posture
```

run serverless e2e tests:
```bash
yarn test:ftr:server --config x-pack/test_serverless/functional/test_suites/security/config.cloud_security_posture.ts
yarn test:ftr:runner ---config x-pack/test_serverless/functional/test_suites/security/config.cloud_security_posture.ts
```

#### Run **Cypress tests (e2e) for development**
When developing feature outside our plugin folder, instead of using FTRs for e2e test, we may use Cypress. Before running cypress, make sure you have installed it first. Like FTRs, we can run cypress in different environment, for example:

run ess e2e tests:
```bash
yarn cypress:open:ess
```

run ess Cloud Security Posture e2e tests:
```bash
yarn cypress:cloud_security_posture:run:ess
```

run serverless e2e tests:
```bash
yarn cypress:open:serverless
```

run serverless Cloud Security Posture e2e tests:
```bash
yarn cypress:cloud_security_posture:run:serverless
```

Unlike FTR where we have to set server and runner separately, Cypress handles everything in 1 go, so just running the above the script is enough to get it running

### Troubleshooting

If you encounter an error related to running machine learning code, you should add the following string `'xpack.ml.enabled=false'` under the `esTestCluster` property in the `x-pack/test/functional/config.base.js` file.

Example:
```javascript
module.exports = {
  esTestCluster: {
    // ...existing configuration...
    serverArgs: [
      // ...existing arguments...
      'xpack.ml.enabled=false', // Add this line to disable ML
    ],
  },
  // ...other configurations...
};
