docs/user/ml/index.asciidoc, before:

[role="xpack"]
[[xpack-ml]]
= {ml-cap}

[partintro]
--
As data sets increase in size and complexity, the human effort required to
inspect dashboards or maintain rules for spotting infrastructure problems,
cyber attacks, or business issues becomes impractical. Elastic {ml-features}
such as {anomaly-detect} and {oldetection} make it easier to notice suspicious
activities with minimal human interference.

{kib} includes a free *{data-viz}* to learn more about your data. In particular,
if your data is stored in {es} and contains a time field, you can use the
*{data-viz}* to identify possible fields for {anomaly-detect}:

[role="screenshot"]
image::user/ml/images/ml-data-visualizer-sample.jpg[{data-viz} for sample flight data]

experimental[] You can also upload a CSV, NDJSON, or log file. The *{data-viz}*
identifies the file format and field mappings. You can then optionally import
that data into an {es} index. To change the default file size limit, see
<<kibana-ml-settings,Machine learning advanced settings>>.

If {stack-security-features} are enabled, users must have the necessary
privileges to use {ml-features}. Refer to 
{ml-docs}/setup.html#setup-privileges[Set up {ml-features}].

--

[[xpack-ml-anomalies]]
== {anomaly-detect-cap}

The Elastic {ml} {anomaly-detect} feature automatically models the normal
behavior of your time series data — learning trends, periodicity, and more — in
real time to identify anomalies, streamline root cause analysis, and reduce
false positives. {anomaly-detect-cap} runs in and scales with {es}, and
includes an intuitive UI on the {kib} *Machine Learning* page for creating
{anomaly-jobs} and understanding results.

If you have a license that includes the {ml-features}, you can 
create {anomaly-jobs} and manage jobs and {dfeeds} from the *Job Management*
pane: 

[role="screenshot"]
image::user/ml/images/ml-job-management.png[Job Management]

You can use the *Settings* pane to create and edit 
{ml-docs}/ml-calendars.html[calendars] and the filters that are used in 
{ml-docs}/ml-rules.html[custom rules]:

[role="screenshot"]
image::user/ml/images/ml-settings.png[Calendar Management]

The *Anomaly Explorer* and *Single Metric Viewer* display the results of your
{anomaly-jobs}. For example:

[role="screenshot"]
image::user/ml/images/ml-single-metric-viewer.png[Single Metric Viewer]

You can optionally add annotations by drag-selecting a period of time in
the *Single Metric Viewer* and adding a description. For example, you can add an
explanation for anomalies in that time period or provide notes about what is
occurring in your operational environment at that time:

[role="screenshot"]
image::user/ml/images/ml-annotations-list.png[Single Metric Viewer with annotations]

In some circumstances, annotations are also added automatically. For example, if
the {anomaly-job} detects that there is missing data, it annotates the affected 
time period. For more information, see 
{ml-docs}/ml-delayed-data-detection.html[Handling delayed data]. The 
*Job Management* pane shows the full list of annotations for each job.

NOTE: The {kib} {ml-features} use pop-ups. You must configure your web 
browser so that it does not block pop-up windows or create an exception for your 
{kib} URL.

For more information about the {anomaly-detect} feature, see
https://www.elastic.co/what-is/elastic-stack-machine-learning[{ml-cap} in the {stack}]
and {ml-docs}/xpack-ml.html[{ml-cap} {anomaly-detect}].

[[xpack-ml-dfanalytics]]
== {dfanalytics-cap}

experimental[]

The Elastic {ml} {dfanalytics} feature enables you to analyze your data using
{classification}, {oldetection}, and {regression} algorithms and generate new
indices that contain the results alongside your source data. 

If you have a license that includes the {ml-features}, you can create
{dfanalytics-jobs} and view their results on the *Data Frame Analytics* page in
{kib}. For example:

[role="screenshot"]
image::user/ml/images/outliers.png[{oldetection-cap} results in {kib}]

For more information about the {dfanalytics} feature, see 
{ml-docs}/ml-dfanalytics.html[{ml-cap} {dfanalytics}].

Commit message:

[DOCS] Reallocates limitations to point-of-use (#79582) (#83825)
* [DOCS] Reallocates limitations to point-of-use

* KQL changes

* Removed limitations file

* Review comments

docs/user/ml/index.asciidoc, after:

[role="xpack"]
[[xpack-ml]]
= {ml-cap}

[partintro]
--
As data sets increase in size and complexity, the human effort required to
inspect dashboards or maintain rules for spotting infrastructure problems,
cyber attacks, or business issues becomes impractical. Elastic {ml-features}
such as {anomaly-detect} and {oldetection} make it easier to notice suspicious
activities with minimal human interference.

{kib} includes a free *{data-viz}* to learn more about your data. In particular,
if your data is stored in {es} and contains a time field, you can use the
*{data-viz}* to identify possible fields for {anomaly-detect}:

[role="screenshot"]
image::user/ml/images/ml-data-visualizer-sample.jpg[{data-viz} for sample flight data]

experimental[] You can also upload a CSV, NDJSON, or log file. The *{data-viz}*
identifies the file format and field mappings. You can then optionally import
that data into an {es} index. To change the default file size limit, see
<<kibana-ml-settings,Machine learning advanced settings>>.

If {stack-security-features} are enabled, users must have the necessary
privileges to use {ml-features}. Refer to 
{ml-docs}/setup.html#setup-privileges[Set up {ml-features}].

NOTE: There are limitations in {ml-features} that affect {kib}. For more information, refer to {ml-docs}/ml-limitations.html[Machine learning].

--

[[xpack-ml-anomalies]]
== {anomaly-detect-cap}

The Elastic {ml} {anomaly-detect} feature automatically models the normal
behavior of your time series data — learning trends, periodicity, and more — in
real time to identify anomalies, streamline root cause analysis, and reduce
false positives. {anomaly-detect-cap} runs in and scales with {es}, and
includes an intuitive UI on the {kib} *Machine Learning* page for creating
{anomaly-jobs} and understanding results.

If you have a license that includes the {ml-features}, you can 
create {anomaly-jobs} and manage jobs and {dfeeds} from the *Job Management*
pane: 

[role="screenshot"]
image::user/ml/images/ml-job-management.png[Job Management]

You can use the *Settings* pane to create and edit 
{ml-docs}/ml-calendars.html[calendars] and the filters that are used in 
{ml-docs}/ml-rules.html[custom rules]:

[role="screenshot"]
image::user/ml/images/ml-settings.png[Calendar Management]

The *Anomaly Explorer* and *Single Metric Viewer* display the results of your
{anomaly-jobs}. For example:

[role="screenshot"]
image::user/ml/images/ml-single-metric-viewer.png[Single Metric Viewer]

You can optionally add annotations by drag-selecting a period of time in
the *Single Metric Viewer* and adding a description. For example, you can add an
explanation for anomalies in that time period or provide notes about what is
occurring in your operational environment at that time:

[role="screenshot"]
image::user/ml/images/ml-annotations-list.png[Single Metric Viewer with annotations]

In some circumstances, annotations are also added automatically. For example, if
the {anomaly-job} detects that there is missing data, it annotates the affected 
time period. For more information, see 
{ml-docs}/ml-delayed-data-detection.html[Handling delayed data]. The 
*Job Management* pane shows the full list of annotations for each job.

NOTE: The {kib} {ml-features} use pop-ups. You must configure your web 
browser so that it does not block pop-up windows or create an exception for your 
{kib} URL.

For more information about the {anomaly-detect} feature, see
https://www.elastic.co/what-is/elastic-stack-machine-learning[{ml-cap} in the {stack}]
and {ml-docs}/xpack-ml.html[{ml-cap} {anomaly-detect}].

[[xpack-ml-dfanalytics]]
== {dfanalytics-cap}

experimental[]

The Elastic {ml} {dfanalytics} feature enables you to analyze your data using
{classification}, {oldetection}, and {regression} algorithms and generate new
indices that contain the results alongside your source data. 

If you have a license that includes the {ml-features}, you can create
{dfanalytics-jobs} and view their results on the *Data Frame Analytics* page in
{kib}. For example:

[role="screenshot"]
image::user/ml/images/outliers.png[{oldetection-cap} results in {kib}]

For more information about the {dfanalytics} feature, see 
{ml-docs}/ml-dfanalytics.html[{ml-cap} {dfanalytics}].
