src/plugins/console/README.md, before:

# Console

## About

Console provides the user with tools for storing and executing requests against Elasticsearch.

## Features

### `load_from` query parameter

The `load_from` query parameter enables opening Console with prepopulated requests in two ways: from the elastic.co docs and from within other parts of Kibana.

Plugins can open requests in Kibana by assigning this parameter a `data:text/plain` [lz-string](https://pieroxy.net/blog/pages/lz-string/index.html) encoded value. For example, navigating to `/dev_tools#/console?load_from=data:text/plain,OIUQKgBA+gzgpgQwE4GMAWAoA3gIgI4CucSAnjgFy4C2CALulAgDZMVYC+nQA` will prepopulate Console with the following request:

```
GET _search
{"query":{"match_all":{}}}
```

### Kibana API support ([#100253](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/128562))
Console plugin now supports Kibana API endpoints. `kbn:` prefix must be used in the request URL to send a request to Kibana API. For example, the following request sends a request to the Kibana API to retrieve the list of available spaces:
```
GET kbn:api/spaces/space
```

### Request-body comments
Single-line and multiline comments can be added to the request body. The comments are displayed in the request editor, but are not sent to the cluster. The comments are useful for adding notes to the request body. For example, the following request body contains a single-line comment and a multiline comment:
```
POST /_some_endpoint
{
  // This is a single-line comment
  /* This is a multiline comment */
  "field": "value"
}
```

### Variables
Console plugin now supports variables. The variables can be used in the request body and in the request URL. The variables are defined in the `Variables` flyout in the Console UI and used in the request body and URL by wrapping the variable name with `${}`. For example, the following request body contains a variable:
```
POST /_some_endpoint
{
  "field": "${variable}"
}
```

## Architecture
Console uses Ace editor that is wrapped with [`CoreEditor`](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/blob/main/src/plugins/console/public/types/core_editor.ts), so that if needed it can easily be replaced with another editor, for example Monaco.
The autocomplete logic is located in [`autocomplete`](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/blob/main/src/plugins/console/public/lib/autocomplete) folder. Autocomplete rules are computed by classes in `components` sub-folder.

## Autocomplete definitions
Kibana users benefit greatly from autocomplete suggestions since not all Elasticsearch APIs can be provided with a corresponding UI. Autocomplete suggestions improve usability of Console for any Elasticsearch API endpoint.
Autocomplete definitions are all created in the form of javascript objects loaded from `json` and `js` files. 

### Creating definitions
The [`generated`](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/blob/main/src/plugins/console/server/lib/spec_definitions/json/generated) folder contains definitions created automatically from Elasticsearch REST API specifications. See this [README](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/blob/main/packages/kbn-spec-to-console/README.md) file for more information on the `spec-to-console` script. 

Manually created override files in the [`overrides`](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/blob/main/src/plugins/console/server/lib/spec_definitions/json/overrides) folder contain fixes for generated files and additions for request body parameters.   

### Top level keys
Use following top level keys in the definitions objects.

#### `documentation`
Url to Elasticsearch REST API documentation for the endpoint (If the url contains `master` or `current` strings in the path, Console automatically replaces them with the `docLinkVersion` to always redirect the user to the correct version of the documentation).

#### `methods`
Allowed http methods (`GET`, `POST` etc)

#### `patterns`
Array of API endpoints that contain variables like `{indices}` or `{fields}`. For example, `{indices}/_rollup/{rollup_index}`. See the [Variables](#variables) section below for more info.

#### `url_params`
Query url parameters and their values. See the [Query url parameters](#query-url-parameters) section below for more info. An example: 
```json
{
  "url_params": {
    "format": "",
    "local": "__flag__",
    "h": [],
    "expand_wildcards": [
      "open",
      "closed",
      "hidden",
      "none",
      "all"
    ]
  }
}
```

#### `priority`
Value for selecting one autocomplete definition, if several configurations are loaded from the files. The highest number takes precedence.

#### `data_autocomplete_rules`
Request body parameters and their values. Only used in `overrides` files because REST API specs don't contain any information about body request parameters.
Refer to Elasticsearch REST API documentation when configuring this object. See the [Request body parameters](#request-body-parameters) section below for more info. An example:
```json
{
  "data_autocomplete_rules": {
    "text": [],
    "field": "{field}",
    "analyzer": "",
    "explain": { "__one_of": [false, true] }
  }
}
```

### Query url parameters
Query url parameters are configured in form of an object, for example: 
```json
{
  "url_params": {
    "local": "__flag__",
    "scroll": "",
    "expand_wildcards": [
      "open",
      "closed",
      "hidden",
      "none",
      "all"
    ]
  }
} 
```
This object specifies 3 query parameters: `local` (boolean value), `scroll` (no default value) and `expand_wildcards` (with a list of accepted values).  

When the user types in the url path into Console and at least 2 characters after `?`, all matching url parameters are displayed as autocomplete suggestions. In this example, after typing 
```
GET /_some_endpoint?ca
```
"local" and "expand_wildcards" are displayed as suggestions.
When the user types at least 2 characters after `=`, all matching values for this parameter are displayed as autocomplete suggestions. In this example, after typing 
```
GET /_some_endpoint?expand_wildcards=hi
```
"hidden" is displayed for autocompletion. 

Variables such as `{indices}` or `{fields}` are accepted both as an url parameter and its value in the configuration object. See the [Variables](#variables) section below for more information.

### Request body parameters
Request body parameters are configured in form of an object, for example: 
```json
{
  "data_autocomplete_rules": {
    "index_patterns": [],
    "mappings": { "__scope_link": "put_mapping" },
    "version": 0,
    "aliases": {
      "__template": {
        "NAME": {}
      }
    }
  }
}
```
Object's keys are parameters that will be displayed as autocomplete suggestions when the user starts typing request body. In this example, after typing 
```
PUT /_some_endpoint
{
  "
```
"index_patterns", "mappings", "version" and "aliases" are displayed as autocomplete suggestions. 
Object's values provide default or accepted values of request body parameters. For example, if "version" is selected from the suggestions list, value `0` is automatically filled, resulting in the following request: 
```
PUT /_some_endpoint
{
  "version": 0
}
```
Object's values can contain objects for nested configuration because the engine can work recursively while searching for autocomplete suggestions. 

Following values can be used in the configuration object: 
#### One value from the list (`__one_of: [..., ...]`)
Use this configuration for a parameter with a list of allowed values, for example types of snapshot repository: 
```
"type": {"__one_of": ["fs", "url", "s3", "hdfs", "azure"]}
```
The first value in the list will be automatically filled as parameter value. For example, when "type" is selected from the suggestions list, the request body is autofilled as following:
```
PUT /_some_endpoint
{
  "type": "fs"
} 
```
But if the value `fs` is deleted, all suggestions will be displayed: "fs", "url", "s3", "hdfs" and "azure". 
Use `__one_of: [true, false]` for boolean values.

#### Array of values (`[..., ... ]` or `__any_of: [..., ...]`)
Use this configuration for parameters which accept an array of values, for example actions parameter: 
```
"actions": { "__any_of": [ "add", "remove"]}
```
When "actions" is selected from the suggestions list, it will be autocompleted with an empty array: 
```
POST /_some_endpoint
{
  "actions": []
}
```
All values in the array are displayed as suggestions for parameter values inside the array.


#### Default object structure (`__template: {...}`)
Use this configuration to insert an object with default values into the request body when the corresponding key is typed in. 
For example, in this configuration 
```json
{
  "terms": {
    "__template": {
      "field": "",
      "size": 10
    },
    "field": "{field}",
    "size": 10,
    "shard_size": 10,
    "min_doc_count": 10
  }
}
```
the `terms` parameter has several properties, but only `field` and `size` are autocompleted in the request body when "terms" is selected from the suggestions list. 
```
POST /_some_endpoint
{
  terms: {
    field: '',
    size: 10,
  }
}
```
The rest of the properties are displayed as autocomplete suggestions, when the `terms` object is being edited.

#### Scope link (`__scope_link`)
Use this type to copy a configuration object specified in a different endpoint definition. For example, the `put_settings` endpoint definition contains a configuration object that can be reused for `settings` parameter in a different endpoint: 
```json
{
  "data_autocomplete_rules": {
    "settings": {
      "__scope_link": "put_settings"
    }
  }
}
```
#### Global scope (`GLOBAL`)
Use `GLOBAL` keyword with `__scope_link` to refer to a reusable set of definitions created in the [`globals`](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/blob/main/src/plugins/console/server/lib/spec_definitions/js/globals.ts) file.
For example: 
```json
{
  "data_autocomplete_rules": {
    "query": {
      "__scope_link": "GLOBAL.query"
    }
  }
}
```
#### Conditional definition (`__condition: { lines_regex: ... }`)
To provide a different set of autocomplete suggestions based on the value configured in the request. For example, when creating a snapshot repository of different types (`fs`, `url` etc) different properties are displayed in the suggestions list based on the type. See [snapshot.create_repository.json](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/blob/main/src/plugins/console/server/lib/spec_definitions/json/overrides/snapshot.create_repository.json) for an example.


### Variables
Some autocomplete definitions need to be configured with dynamic values that can't be hard coded into a json or js file, for example a list of indices in the cluster. 
A list of variables is defined in the  `parametrizedComponentFactories` function in [`kb.js`](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/blob/main/src/plugins/console/public/lib/kb/kb.js) file. The values of these variables are assigned dynamically for every cluster. 
Use these variables with curly braces, for example `{indices}`, `{types}`, `{id}`, `{username}`, `{template}`, `{nodes}` etc.


### Architecture changes in 8.3 release (timeline: 07-04-2022 - 19-06-2022)
One of the main changes in architecture is refactoring the retrieval of autocomplete suggestions. Console used to send a separate request to ES for each autocomplete entity (mappings, aliases, templates, data-streams etc) to retrieve the autocomplete suggestions via the original [hand-rolled ES proxy](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/blob/main/src/plugins/console/server/routes/api/console/proxy/create_handler.ts). This had a few drawbacks:
- The number of requests was dependent on the number of autocomplete entities, which was not scalable and could cause performance issues
- It added unnecessary dependencies on the ES proxy
- We risked fetching an enormous response payload for users who have a large number of mappings.

To address these issues, we created a specific [route](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/blob/main/src/plugins/console/server/routes/api/console/autocomplete_entities/index.ts) in the Kibana server to retrieve all autocomplete entities in one request and send it to the client. The response for mappings capped to 10MB to avoid sending a huge payload. The client-side code was refactored to use the new response format. For more details, see [#130633](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/130633).

Another change is replacing jQuery with the core http client to communicate with the Kibana server. Console used a custom jQuery ajax [function](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/blob/8.0/src/plugins/console/public/lib/es/es.ts) to send requests to the Kibana server to have lower-level control over the requests, specifically controls like `crossDomain: true`. This is no longer needed since we are using the core http client. For more details, see [#127867](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/127867).

### Outstanding issues
#### Autocomplete suggestions for Kibana API endpoints
Console currently supports autocomplete suggestions for Elasticsearch API endpoints. The autocomplete suggestions for Kibana API endpoints are not supported yet.
Related issue: [#130661](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/issues/130661)

#### Migration to Monaco Editor
Console plugin is currently using Ace Editor and it is planned to migrate to Monaco Editor in the future.
Related issue: [#57435](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/issues/57435)

Commit message:

[Console] Clean up generated and overrides files, create manual folder, update readme files

src/plugins/console/README.md, after:

# Console

## About

Console provides the user with tools for storing and executing requests against Elasticsearch.

## Features

### `load_from` query parameter

The `load_from` query parameter enables opening Console with prepopulated requests in two ways: from the elastic.co docs and from within other parts of Kibana.

Plugins can open requests in Kibana by assigning this parameter a `data:text/plain` [lz-string](https://pieroxy.net/blog/pages/lz-string/index.html) encoded value. For example, navigating to `/dev_tools#/console?load_from=data:text/plain,OIUQKgBA+gzgpgQwE4GMAWAoA3gIgI4CucSAnjgFy4C2CALulAgDZMVYC+nQA` will prepopulate Console with the following request:

```
GET _search
{"query":{"match_all":{}}}
```

### Kibana API support ([#100253](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/128562))
Console plugin now supports Kibana API endpoints. `kbn:` prefix must be used in the request URL to send a request to Kibana API. For example, the following request sends a request to the Kibana API to retrieve the list of available spaces:
```
GET kbn:api/spaces/space
```

### Request-body comments
Single-line and multiline comments can be added to the request body. The comments are displayed in the request editor, but are not sent to the cluster. The comments are useful for adding notes to the request body. For example, the following request body contains a single-line comment and a multiline comment:
```
POST /_some_endpoint
{
  // This is a single-line comment
  /* This is a multiline comment */
  "field": "value"
}
```

### Variables
Console plugin now supports variables. The variables can be used in the request body and in the request URL. The variables are defined in the `Variables` flyout in the Console UI and used in the request body and URL by wrapping the variable name with `${}`. For example, the following request body contains a variable:
```
POST /_some_endpoint
{
  "field": "${variable}"
}
```

## Architecture
Console uses Ace editor that is wrapped with [`CoreEditor`](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/blob/main/src/plugins/console/public/types/core_editor.ts), so that if needed it can easily be replaced with another editor, for example Monaco.
The autocomplete logic is located in [`autocomplete`](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/blob/main/src/plugins/console/public/lib/autocomplete) folder. Autocomplete rules are computed by classes in `components` sub-folder.

## Autocomplete definitions
Kibana users benefit greatly from autocomplete suggestions since not all Elasticsearch APIs can be provided with a corresponding UI. Autocomplete suggestions improve usability of Console for any Elasticsearch API endpoint.
Autocomplete definitions are all created in the form of javascript objects loaded from `json` and `js` files. 

### Creating definitions
The [`generated`](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/blob/main/src/plugins/console/server/lib/spec_definitions/json/generated) folder contains definitions created automatically from Elasticsearch REST API specifications. See this [README](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/blob/main/packages/kbn-spec-to-console/README.md) file for more information on the `spec-to-console` script. 

Manually created override files in the [`overrides`](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/blob/main/src/plugins/console/server/lib/spec_definitions/json/overrides) folder contain additions for request body parameters since those
are not created by the script. Any other fixes such as documentation links, request methods and patters and url parameters 
should be addressed at the source. That means this should be fixed in Elasticsearch REST API specifications and then 
autocomplete definitions can be re-generated with the script. 

If there are any endpoints missing completely from the `generated` folder, this should also be addressed at the source, i.e. 
Elasticsearch REST API specifications. If for some reason, that is not possible, then additional definitions files 
can be placed in the folder [`manual`]((https://github.com/elastic/kibana/blob/main/src/plugins/console/server/lib/spec_definitions/json/manual)).

### Top level keys
Use following top level keys in the definitions objects.

#### `documentation`
Url to Elasticsearch REST API documentation for the endpoint (If the url contains `master` or `current` strings in the path, Console automatically replaces them with the `docLinkVersion` to always redirect the user to the correct version of the documentation).

#### `methods`
Allowed http methods (`GET`, `POST` etc)

#### `patterns`
Array of API endpoints that contain variables like `{indices}` or `{fields}`. For example, `{indices}/_rollup/{rollup_index}`. See the [Variables](#variables) section below for more info.

#### `url_params`
Query url parameters and their values. See the [Query url parameters](#query-url-parameters) section below for more info. An example: 
```json
{
  "url_params": {
    "format": "",
    "local": "__flag__",
    "h": [],
    "expand_wildcards": [
      "open",
      "closed",
      "hidden",
      "none",
      "all"
    ]
  }
}
```

#### `priority`
Value for selecting one autocomplete definition, if several configurations are loaded from the files. The highest number takes precedence.

#### `data_autocomplete_rules`
Request body parameters and their values. Only used in `overrides` files because REST API specs don't contain any information about body request parameters.
Refer to Elasticsearch REST API documentation when configuring this object. See the [Request body parameters](#request-body-parameters) section below for more info. An example:
```json
{
  "data_autocomplete_rules": {
    "text": [],
    "field": "{field}",
    "analyzer": "",
    "explain": { "__one_of": [false, true] }
  }
}
```

### Query url parameters
Query url parameters are configured in form of an object, for example: 
```json
{
  "url_params": {
    "local": "__flag__",
    "scroll": "",
    "expand_wildcards": [
      "open",
      "closed",
      "hidden",
      "none",
      "all"
    ]
  }
} 
```
This object specifies 3 query parameters: `local` (boolean value), `scroll` (no default value) and `expand_wildcards` (with a list of accepted values).  

When the user types in the url path into Console and at least 2 characters after `?`, all matching url parameters are displayed as autocomplete suggestions. In this example, after typing 
```
GET /_some_endpoint?ca
```
"local" and "expand_wildcards" are displayed as suggestions.
When the user types at least 2 characters after `=`, all matching values for this parameter are displayed as autocomplete suggestions. In this example, after typing 
```
GET /_some_endpoint?expand_wildcards=hi
```
"hidden" is displayed for autocompletion. 

Variables such as `{indices}` or `{fields}` are accepted both as an url parameter and its value in the configuration object. See the [Variables](#variables) section below for more information.

### Request body parameters
Request body parameters are configured in form of an object, for example: 
```json
{
  "data_autocomplete_rules": {
    "index_patterns": [],
    "mappings": { "__scope_link": "put_mapping" },
    "version": 0,
    "aliases": {
      "__template": {
        "NAME": {}
      }
    }
  }
}
```
Object's keys are parameters that will be displayed as autocomplete suggestions when the user starts typing request body. In this example, after typing 
```
PUT /_some_endpoint
{
  "
```
"index_patterns", "mappings", "version" and "aliases" are displayed as autocomplete suggestions. 
Object's values provide default or accepted values of request body parameters. For example, if "version" is selected from the suggestions list, value `0` is automatically filled, resulting in the following request: 
```
PUT /_some_endpoint
{
  "version": 0
}
```
Object's values can contain objects for nested configuration because the engine can work recursively while searching for autocomplete suggestions. 

Following values can be used in the configuration object: 
#### One value from the list (`__one_of: [..., ...]`)
Use this configuration for a parameter with a list of allowed values, for example types of snapshot repository: 
```
"type": {"__one_of": ["fs", "url", "s3", "hdfs", "azure"]}
```
The first value in the list will be automatically filled as parameter value. For example, when "type" is selected from the suggestions list, the request body is autofilled as following:
```
PUT /_some_endpoint
{
  "type": "fs"
} 
```
But if the value `fs` is deleted, all suggestions will be displayed: "fs", "url", "s3", "hdfs" and "azure". 
Use `__one_of: [true, false]` for boolean values.

#### Array of values (`[..., ... ]` or `__any_of: [..., ...]`)
Use this configuration for parameters which accept an array of values, for example actions parameter: 
```
"actions": { "__any_of": [ "add", "remove"]}
```
When "actions" is selected from the suggestions list, it will be autocompleted with an empty array: 
```
POST /_some_endpoint
{
  "actions": []
}
```
All values in the array are displayed as suggestions for parameter values inside the array.


#### Default object structure (`__template: {...}`)
Use this configuration to insert an object with default values into the request body when the corresponding key is typed in. 
For example, in this configuration 
```json
{
  "terms": {
    "__template": {
      "field": "",
      "size": 10
    },
    "field": "{field}",
    "size": 10,
    "shard_size": 10,
    "min_doc_count": 10
  }
}
```
the `terms` parameter has several properties, but only `field` and `size` are autocompleted in the request body when "terms" is selected from the suggestions list. 
```
POST /_some_endpoint
{
  terms: {
    field: '',
    size: 10,
  }
}
```
The rest of the properties are displayed as autocomplete suggestions, when the `terms` object is being edited.

#### Scope link (`__scope_link`)
Use this type to copy a configuration object specified in a different endpoint definition. For example, the `put_settings` endpoint definition contains a configuration object that can be reused for `settings` parameter in a different endpoint: 
```json
{
  "data_autocomplete_rules": {
    "settings": {
      "__scope_link": "put_settings"
    }
  }
}
```
#### Global scope (`GLOBAL`)
Use `GLOBAL` keyword with `__scope_link` to refer to a reusable set of definitions created in the [`globals`](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/blob/main/src/plugins/console/server/lib/spec_definitions/js/globals.ts) file.
For example: 
```json
{
  "data_autocomplete_rules": {
    "query": {
      "__scope_link": "GLOBAL.query"
    }
  }
}
```
#### Conditional definition (`__condition: { lines_regex: ... }`)
To provide a different set of autocomplete suggestions based on the value configured in the request. For example, when creating a snapshot repository of different types (`fs`, `url` etc) different properties are displayed in the suggestions list based on the type. See [snapshot.create_repository.json](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/blob/main/src/plugins/console/server/lib/spec_definitions/json/overrides/snapshot.create_repository.json) for an example.


### Variables
Some autocomplete definitions need to be configured with dynamic values that can't be hard coded into a json or js file, for example a list of indices in the cluster. 
A list of variables is defined in the  `parametrizedComponentFactories` function in [`kb.js`](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/blob/main/src/plugins/console/public/lib/kb/kb.js) file. The values of these variables are assigned dynamically for every cluster. 
Use these variables with curly braces, for example `{indices}`, `{types}`, `{id}`, `{username}`, `{template}`, `{nodes}` etc.


### Architecture changes in 8.3 release (timeline: 07-04-2022 - 19-06-2022)
One of the main changes in architecture is refactoring the retrieval of autocomplete suggestions. Console used to send a separate request to ES for each autocomplete entity (mappings, aliases, templates, data-streams etc) to retrieve the autocomplete suggestions via the original [hand-rolled ES proxy](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/blob/main/src/plugins/console/server/routes/api/console/proxy/create_handler.ts). This had a few drawbacks:
- The number of requests was dependent on the number of autocomplete entities, which was not scalable and could cause performance issues
- It added unnecessary dependencies on the ES proxy
- We risked fetching an enormous response payload for users who have a large number of mappings.

To address these issues, we created a specific [route](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/blob/main/src/plugins/console/server/routes/api/console/autocomplete_entities/index.ts) in the Kibana server to retrieve all autocomplete entities in one request and send it to the client. The response for mappings capped to 10MB to avoid sending a huge payload. The client-side code was refactored to use the new response format. For more details, see [#130633](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/130633).

Another change is replacing jQuery with the core http client to communicate with the Kibana server. Console used a custom jQuery ajax [function](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/blob/8.0/src/plugins/console/public/lib/es/es.ts) to send requests to the Kibana server to have lower-level control over the requests, specifically controls like `crossDomain: true`. This is no longer needed since we are using the core http client. For more details, see [#127867](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/127867).

### Outstanding issues
#### Autocomplete suggestions for Kibana API endpoints
Console currently supports autocomplete suggestions for Elasticsearch API endpoints. The autocomplete suggestions for Kibana API endpoints are not supported yet.
Related issue: [#130661](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/issues/130661)

#### Migration to Monaco Editor
Console plugin is currently using Ace Editor and it is planned to migrate to Monaco Editor in the future.
Related issue: [#57435](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/issues/57435)
