docs/management/connectors/action-types/cases-webhook.asciidoc, before:

[[cases-webhook-action-type]]
== {webhook-cm} connector and action
++++
<titleabbrev>{webhook-cm}</titleabbrev>
++++
:frontmatter-description: Add a connector that can send requests to case management web services.
:frontmatter-tags-products: [kibana] 
:frontmatter-tags-content-type: [how-to] 
:frontmatter-tags-user-goals: [configure]

The {webhook-cm} connector uses https://github.com/axios/axios[axios] to send POST, PUT, and GET requests to a case management RESTful API web service.

[float]
[[define-cases-webhook-ui]]
=== Create connectors in {kib}

You can create connectors in *{stack-manage-app} > {connectors-ui}*
or as needed when you're creating a rule.
In the first step, you must provide a name for the connector and its authentication details.
For example:

[role="screenshot"]
image::management/connectors/images/cases-webhook-connector.png[Set authentication details in the {webhook-cm} connector]
// NOTE: This is an autogenerated screenshot. Do not edit it directly.

In the second step, you must provide the information necessary to create cases in the external system.
For example:

[role="screenshot"]
image::management/connectors/images/cases-webhook-connector-create-case.png[Add case creation details in the {webhook-cm} connector]
// NOTE: This is an autogenerated screenshot. Do not edit it directly.

In the third step, you must provide information related to retrieving case details from the external system.
For example:

[role="screenshot"]
image::management/connectors/images/cases-webhook-connector-get-case.png[Add case retrieval details in the {webhook-cm} connector]
// NOTE: This is an autogenerated screenshot. Do not edit it directly.

In the fourth step, you must provide information necessary to update cases in the external system.
You can also optionally provide information to add comments to cases.
For example:

[role="screenshot"]
image::management/connectors/images/cases-webhook-connector-comments.png[Add case update and comment details in the {webhook-cm} connector]
// NOTE: This is an autogenerated screenshot. Do not edit it directly.

[float]
[[cases-webhook-connector-configuration]]
==== Connector configuration

{webhook-cm} connectors have the following configuration properties:

Add HTTP header::
A set of key-value pairs sent as headers with the request URLs for the create case, update case, get case, and create comment methods.

Create case method::
The REST API HTTP request method to create a case in the third-party system: `post`(default), `put`, or `patch`.

Create case object::
A JSON payload sent to the create case URL to create a case.
Use the variable selector to add case data to the payload.
Required variables are `case.title` and `case.description`. For example:
+
--
[source,json]
----
{
	"fields": {
	  "summary": {{{case.title}}},
	  "description": {{{case.description}}},
	  "labels": {{{case.tags}}}
	}
}
----

NOTE: Due to Mustache template variables (the text enclosed in triple braces, for example, `{{{case.title}}}`), the JSON is not validated in this step.
The JSON is validated after the Mustache variables have been placed when REST method runs. 
Manually ensure that the JSON is valid, disregarding the Mustache variables, so the later validation will pass.
--

Create case response external key::
The JSON key in the create external case response that contains the case ID.

Create case URL::
The REST API URL to create a case in the third-party system.
If you are using the <<action-settings,`xpack.actions.allowedHosts`>> setting, make sure the hostname is added to the allowed hosts.

Create comment method::
The optional REST API HTTP request method to create a case comment in the third-party system: `post`, `put`(default), or `patch`.

Create comment object::
An optional JSON payload sent to the create comment URL to create a case comment.
Use the variable selector to add {kib} cases data to the payload.
The required variable is `case.comment`. For example:
+
--
[source,json]
-----
{
  "body": {{{case.comment}}}
}
-----

NOTE: Due to Mustache template variables (the text enclosed in triple braces, for example, `{{{case.title}}}`), the JSON is not validated in this step. The JSON is validated once the mustache variables have been placed and when REST method runs. We recommend manually ensuring that the JSON is valid, disregarding the Mustache variables, so the later validation will pass.
--

Create comment URL::
The optional REST API URL to create a case comment by ID in the third-party system.
Use the variable selector to add the external system ID to the URL.
If you are using the <<action-settings,`xpack.actions.allowedHosts`>> setting, make sure the hostname is added to the allowed hosts. For example:
+
[source,text]
--
https://testing-jira.atlassian.net/rest/api/2/issue/{{{external.system.id}}}/comment
--

External case view URL::
The URL to view the case in the external system.
Use the variable selector to add the external system ID or external system title to the URL. For example:
+
[source,text]
--
https://testing-jira.atlassian.net/browse/{{{external.system.title}}}
--

Get case response external title key::
The JSON key in the get external case response that contains the case title.

Get case URL::
The REST API URL to GET case by ID from the third-party system.
Use the variable selector to add the external system ID to the URL.
If you are using the <<action-settings,`xpack.actions.allowedHosts`>> setting, make sure the hostname is added to the allowed hosts.
For example:
+
--
[source,text]
----
https://testing-jira.atlassian.net/rest/api/2/issue/{{{external.system.id}}}
----

NOTE: Due to Mustache template variables (the text enclosed in triple braces, for example, `{{{case.title}}}`), the JSON is not validated in this step. The JSON is validated after the Mustache variables have been placed when REST method runs. Manually ensure that the JSON is valid, disregarding the Mustache variables, so the later validation will pass.
--

Require authentication::
If true, a username and password for login type authentication must be provided.

Password::
The password for HTTP basic authentication.

Update case method::
The REST API HTTP request method to update the case in the third-party system: `post`, `put`(default), or `patch`.

Update case object::
A JSON payload sent to the update case URL to update the case.
Use the variable selector to add {{kib}} cases data to the payload.
Required variables are `case.title` and `case.description`.
For example:
+
--
[source,json]
------
{
	"fields": {
	  "summary": {{{case.title}}},
	  "description": {{{case.description}}},
	  "labels": {{{case.tags}}}
	}
}
------

NOTE: Due to Mustache template variables (which is the text enclosed in triple braces, for example, `{{{case.title}}}`), the JSON is not validated in this step.
The JSON is validated after the Mustache variables have been placed when REST method runs. Manually ensure that the JSON is valid to avoid future validation errors; disregard Mustache variables during your review.
--

Update case URL::
The REST API URL to update the case by ID in the third-party system.
Use the variable selector to add the external system ID to the URL.
If you are using the <<action-settings,`xpack.actions.allowedHosts`>> setting, make sure the hostname is added to the allowed hosts.
For example:
+
[source,text]
--
https://testing-jira.atlassian.net/rest/api/2/issue/{{{external.system.ID}}}
--

Username::
The username for HTTP basic authentication.

[float]
[[cases-webhook-action-configuration]]
=== Test connectors

You can test connectors with the <<execute-connector-api,run connector API>> or
as you're creating or editing the connector in {kib}. For example:

[role="screenshot"]
image::management/connectors/images/cases-webhook-test.gif[{webhook-cm} params test]

{webhook-cm} actions have the following configuration properties:

Additional comments::
Additional information for the client, such as how to troubleshoot the issue.

// Case ID:: TBD

Description::
The details about the incident.

Labels:: The labels for the incident.

// Severity:: TBD

// Status:: TBD

//Summary:: TBD

//Tags:: TBD

Title:: A title for the issue, which is used for searching the contents of the knowledge base.

[float]
[[cases-webhook-connector-networking-configuration]]
=== Connector networking configuration

Use the <<action-settings,action configuration settings>> to customize connector networking configurations, such as proxies, certificates, or TLS settings. You can set configurations that apply to all your connectors or use `xpack.actions.customHostSettings` to set per-host configurations.

////
[float]
[[cases-webhook-connector-full-example]]
== Full example with third-party system

In the following example, we connect the {webhook-cm} Connector with a demo instance of {jira} (a third-party case management system). Refer to the https://developer.atlassian.com/cloud/jira/platform/rest/v2/api-group-issues/[{Jira} API documentation] to learn how to create an issue.

NOTE: If you want to connect with {jira} quickly, we recommend using the <<jira-action-type,preconfigured {jira} connector>>.

[float]
====  Step 1 - Set up connector

In the {webhook-cm} connector create flyout, begin by entering a connector *Name*, for example, `Jira Test Connector`. Basic authentication will be used in this example, so keep the *Require authentication* option selected and enter the *Username* and *Password* for the test instance, for example, `test-user@elastic.co` and `notarealpassword`. We will not be setting any *Headers* for the requests.

[role="screenshot"]
image::management/connectors/images/cases-webhook-step1.png[{webhook-cm} connector Step 1, {jira} example]

[float]
====  Step 2 - Create case

To find the required values for this step, refer to the https://developer.atlassian.com/cloud/jira/platform/rest/v2/api-group-issues/#api-rest-api-2-issue-post[{jira} create issue method documentation].

{jira} create issue request method: `POST`

{jira} create issue request URL: `/rest/api/2/issue`

{jira} create issue request body:
[source,json]
--
{
    "fields": {
        "summary": "Main order flow broken",
        "description": "Order entry fails when selecting supplier.",
        "labels": ["bugfix",  "blitz_test"],
        "project":{"key":"PROJ-123"},
        "issuetype":{"id":"10000"}
    }
}
--

{jira} create issue response body:
[source,json]
--
{
  "id": "10000",
  "key": "ED-24",
  "self": "https://your-domain.atlassian.net/rest/api/2/issue/10000",
  "transition": {
    "status": 200,
    "errorCollection": {
      "errorMessages": [],
      "errors": {}
    }
  }
}
--
In the following screen capture, we enter `POST` as the *Create Case Method* and `https://testing-jira.atlassian.net/rest/api/2/issue` as the **Create Case Url**. In our example {jira} instance, the project key is "ROC" and the issuetype ID is "10024". We have entered the {jira} request JSON as the *Create Case Object*, updating the project key to "ROC" and the issuetype ID to "10024". We then use the Case variable selector to enter where we will map the Kibana case title, Kibana case description, and Kibana case tags. The {jira} response body contains an ID with the JSON key of "id", so we enter `id` as the *Create Case Response - Case ID Key*.
[role="screenshot"]
image::management/connectors/images/cases-webhook-step2.gif[{webhook-cm} connector Step 2, {jira} example]

[float]
====  Step 3 - Get case information

Next we'll need to look at {jira}'s https://developer.atlassian.com/cloud/jira/platform/rest/v2/api-group-issues/#api-rest-api-2-issue-issueidorkey-[Get issue method documentation] to find the values for this step. In the GET response JSON below, we thinned out some null and unrelated data so that we can focus on the fields we need.

{jira} get issue request URL: `/rest/api/2/issue/{issueIdOrKey}`

{jira} get issue response body:
[source,json]
--
{
    "id": "71964",
    "self": "https://testing-jira.atlassian.net/rest/api/2/issue/71964",
    "key": "ROC-584",
    "fields": {
        "issuetype": {
            "self": "https://testing-jira.atlassian.net/rest/api/2/issuetype/10024",
            "id": "10024",
            "description": "An improvement or enhancement to an existing feature or task.",
            "name": "Improvement",
            "subtask": false,
            "avatarId": 10310,
            "hierarchyLevel": 0
        },
        "project": {
            "self": "https://testing-jira.atlassian.net/rest/api/2/project/10021",
            "id": "10021",
            "key": "ROC",
            "name": "ResponseOps Cases",
            "projectTypeKey": "software",
            "simplified": false
        },
        "created": "2022-08-02T16:52:20.554+0300",
        "priority": {
            "name": "Medium",
            "id": "3"
        },
        "labels": ["kibanaTag"],
        "updated": "2022-08-02T16:52:20.554+0300",
        "status": {
            "self": "https://testing-jira.atlassian.net/rest/api/2/status/10003",
            "description": "",
            "name": "To Do",
            "id": "10003",
            "statusCategory": {
                "self": "https://testing-jira.atlassian.net/rest/api/2/statuscategory/2",
                "id": 2,
                "key": "new",
                "colorName": "blue-gray",
                "name": "To Do"
            }
        },
        "description": "Kibana Description",
        "summary": "Kibana Title",
        "creator": {
            "self": "https://testing-jira.atlassian.net/rest/api/2/user?accountId=12345",
            "accountId": "12345",
            "emailAddress": "test-user@elastic.co",
            "displayName": "MLR-QA",
            "active": true,
            "timeZone": "Europe/Athens",
            "accountType": "atlassian"
        },
        "reporter": {
            "self": "https://testing-jira.atlassian.net/rest/api/2/user?accountId=12345",
            "accountId": "12345",
            "emailAddress": "test-user@elastic.co",
            "displayName": "MLR-QA",
            "active": true,
            "timeZone": "Europe/Athens",
            "accountType": "atlassian"
        },
        "comment": {
            "comments": [],
            "self": "https://testing-jira.atlassian.net/rest/api/2/issue/71964/comment",
            "maxResults": 0,
            "total": 0,
            "startAt": 0
        }
    }
}
--

To make the Get Case URL, we need `/rest/api/2/issue/{issueIdOrKey}`. We will fill in the value with the issue ID, which we stored in the last step as *Create Case Response - Case ID Key*. Using the variable selector on the Get Case URL input, we can see the issue ID is stored as a Mustache value `{{{external.system.id}}}`. So our value for *Get Case URL* will be `https://testing-jira.atlassian.net/rest/api/2/issue/{{{external.system.id}}}`.

In the response JSON we can see the title of the case is "ROC-538". The key for this value is `key` so we enter `key` as the *Get Case Response External Title Key* value.

We also need the *External Case View URL*. https://support.atlassian.com/jira-software-cloud/docs/link-an-issue/[{jira}'s documentation] instructs you to get the link from the issue itself. The format for this link looks like `https://<user’s subdomain>.atlassian.net/browse/<issueKey>`. We mapped `key` to the *Get Case Response External Title Key* and using the variable selector on the *External Case View URL* input, we can see the issue key is stored as a Mustache value `{{{external.system.title}}}`. Using this, the value for *External Case View URL* is `https://testing-jira.atlassian.net/browse/{{{external.system.title}}}`.
[role="screenshot"]
image::management/connectors/images/cases-webhook-step3.gif[{webhook-cm} connector Step 3, {jira} example]

[float]
====  Step 4 - Comments and updates

During this step, we need to set the REST API data for updates and comments. Let's look at {jira}'s https://developer.atlassian.com/cloud/jira/platform/rest/v2/api-group-issues/#api-rest-api-2-issue-issueidorkey-put[Edit issue documentation].

{jira} update issue request method: `PUT`

{jira} update issue request URL: `/rest/api/2/issue/{issueIdOrKey}`

{jira} update issue request body:
[source,json]
--
{
    "fields": {
        "summary": "Main order flow broken",
        "description": "Order entry fails when selecting supplier.",
        "labels": ["bugfix",  "blitz_test"],
        "project":{"key":"PROJ-123"},
        "issuetype":{"id":"10000"}
    }
}
--

In the screen capture below, on Step 4 we enter `PUT` as the *Update Case Method* and `https://testing-jira.atlassian.net/rest/api/2/issue/{{{external.system.id}}}` as the **Update Case Url** using the variable selector to insert the `{{{external.system.id}}}`. Just like the create case JSON, have entered the {jira} request JSON as the *Update Case Object*, updating the project key to "ROC" and the issuetype ID to "10024". We then use the Case variable selector to enter where we will map the Kibana case title, Kibana case description, and Kibana case tags.
[role="screenshot"]
image::management/connectors/images/cases-webhook-step4a.gif[{webhook-cm} connector Step 4 Update, {jira} example]

Lastly we will look at {jira}'s https://developer.atlassian.com/cloud/jira/platform/rest/v2/api-group-issue-comments/#api-rest-api-2-issue-issueidorkey-comment-post[Add comment documentation] to fill out the optional comment REST fields.

{jira} create comment request method: `POST`

{jira} create comment request URL: `/rest/api/2/issue/{issueIdOrKey}/comment`

{jira} create comment request body:
[source,json]
--
{
    "body": "Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet."
}
--

In the following screen capture, we enter `POST` as the *Create Comment Method* and `https://testing-jira.atlassian.net/rest/api/2/issue/{{{external.system.id}}}/comment` as the **Create Comment Url** using the variable selector to insert the `{{{external.system.id}}}`. We enter the {jira} request JSON as the *Create Comment Object*, using the case variable selector to enter where we will map the case comment.
[role="screenshot"]
image::management/connectors/images/cases-webhook-step4b.gif[{webhook-cm} connector Step 4 Comments, {jira} example]

[float]
[[cases-webhook-example-implementation]]
=== Implement connector in Kibana Cases
Let's take a look at how our new {webhook-cm} connector works within the case workflow.

[float]
====  Create a case
[role="screenshot"]
image::management/connectors/images/cases-webhook-create.gif[{webhook-cm} connector Create, {jira} example]

[float]
====  Update and comment on a case
[role="screenshot"]
image::management/connectors/images/cases-webhook-update.gif[{webhook-cm} connector Update, {jira} example]
////

Commit message:

[DOCS] Add HTTP header example for webhook connectors

docs/management/connectors/action-types/cases-webhook.asciidoc, after:

[[cases-webhook-action-type]]
== {webhook-cm} connector and action
++++
<titleabbrev>{webhook-cm}</titleabbrev>
++++
:frontmatter-description: Add a connector that can send requests to case management web services.
:frontmatter-tags-products: [kibana] 
:frontmatter-tags-content-type: [how-to] 
:frontmatter-tags-user-goals: [configure]

The {webhook-cm} connector uses https://github.com/axios/axios[axios] to send POST, PUT, and GET requests to a case management RESTful API web service.

[float]
[[define-cases-webhook-ui]]
=== Create connectors in {kib}

You can create connectors in *{stack-manage-app} > {connectors-ui}*
or as needed when you're creating a rule.
In the first step, you must provide a name for the connector and its authentication details.
For example:

[role="screenshot"]
image::management/connectors/images/cases-webhook-connector.png[Set authentication details in the {webhook-cm} connector]
// NOTE: This is an autogenerated screenshot. Do not edit it directly.

In the second step, you must provide the information necessary to create cases in the external system.
For example:

[role="screenshot"]
image::management/connectors/images/cases-webhook-connector-create-case.png[Add case creation details in the {webhook-cm} connector]
// NOTE: This is an autogenerated screenshot. Do not edit it directly.

In the third step, you must provide information related to retrieving case details from the external system.
For example:

[role="screenshot"]
image::management/connectors/images/cases-webhook-connector-get-case.png[Add case retrieval details in the {webhook-cm} connector]
// NOTE: This is an autogenerated screenshot. Do not edit it directly.

In the fourth step, you must provide information necessary to update cases in the external system.
You can also optionally provide information to add comments to cases.
For example:

[role="screenshot"]
image::management/connectors/images/cases-webhook-connector-comments.png[Add case update and comment details in the {webhook-cm} connector]
// NOTE: This is an autogenerated screenshot. Do not edit it directly.

[float]
[[cases-webhook-connector-configuration]]
==== Connector configuration

{webhook-cm} connectors have the following configuration properties:

Add HTTP header::
A set of key-value pairs sent as headers with the request URLs for the create case, update case, get case, and create comment methods.
For example, set `Content-Type` to the appropriate media type for your requests.

Create case method::
The REST API HTTP request method to create a case in the third-party system: `post`(default), `put`, or `patch`.

Create case object::
A JSON payload sent to the create case URL to create a case.
Use the variable selector to add case data to the payload.
Required variables are `case.title` and `case.description`. For example:
+
--
[source,json]
----
{
	"fields": {
	  "summary": {{{case.title}}},
	  "description": {{{case.description}}},
	  "labels": {{{case.tags}}}
	}
}
----

NOTE: Due to Mustache template variables (the text enclosed in triple braces, for example, `{{{case.title}}}`), the JSON is not validated in this step.
The JSON is validated after the Mustache variables have been placed when REST method runs. 
Manually ensure that the JSON is valid, disregarding the Mustache variables, so the later validation will pass.
--

Create case response external key::
The JSON key in the create external case response that contains the case ID.

Create case URL::
The REST API URL to create a case in the third-party system.
If you are using the <<action-settings,`xpack.actions.allowedHosts`>> setting, make sure the hostname is added to the allowed hosts.

Create comment method::
The optional REST API HTTP request method to create a case comment in the third-party system: `post`, `put`(default), or `patch`.

Create comment object::
An optional JSON payload sent to the create comment URL to create a case comment.
Use the variable selector to add {kib} cases data to the payload.
The required variable is `case.comment`. For example:
+
--
[source,json]
-----
{
  "body": {{{case.comment}}}
}
-----

NOTE: Due to Mustache template variables (the text enclosed in triple braces, for example, `{{{case.title}}}`), the JSON is not validated in this step. The JSON is validated once the mustache variables have been placed and when REST method runs. We recommend manually ensuring that the JSON is valid, disregarding the Mustache variables, so the later validation will pass.
--

Create comment URL::
The optional REST API URL to create a case comment by ID in the third-party system.
Use the variable selector to add the external system ID to the URL.
If you are using the <<action-settings,`xpack.actions.allowedHosts`>> setting, make sure the hostname is added to the allowed hosts. For example:
+
[source,text]
--
https://testing-jira.atlassian.net/rest/api/2/issue/{{{external.system.id}}}/comment
--

External case view URL::
The URL to view the case in the external system.
Use the variable selector to add the external system ID or external system title to the URL. For example:
+
[source,text]
--
https://testing-jira.atlassian.net/browse/{{{external.system.title}}}
--

Get case response external title key::
The JSON key in the get external case response that contains the case title.

Get case URL::
The REST API URL to GET case by ID from the third-party system.
Use the variable selector to add the external system ID to the URL.
If you are using the <<action-settings,`xpack.actions.allowedHosts`>> setting, make sure the hostname is added to the allowed hosts.
For example:
+
--
[source,text]
----
https://testing-jira.atlassian.net/rest/api/2/issue/{{{external.system.id}}}
----

NOTE: Due to Mustache template variables (the text enclosed in triple braces, for example, `{{{case.title}}}`), the JSON is not validated in this step. The JSON is validated after the Mustache variables have been placed when REST method runs. Manually ensure that the JSON is valid, disregarding the Mustache variables, so the later validation will pass.
--

Require authentication::
If true, a username and password for login type authentication must be provided.

Password::
The password for HTTP basic authentication.

Update case method::
The REST API HTTP request method to update the case in the third-party system: `post`, `put`(default), or `patch`.

Update case object::
A JSON payload sent to the update case URL to update the case.
Use the variable selector to add {{kib}} cases data to the payload.
Required variables are `case.title` and `case.description`.
For example:
+
--
[source,json]
------
{
	"fields": {
	  "summary": {{{case.title}}},
	  "description": {{{case.description}}},
	  "labels": {{{case.tags}}}
	}
}
------

NOTE: Due to Mustache template variables (which is the text enclosed in triple braces, for example, `{{{case.title}}}`), the JSON is not validated in this step.
The JSON is validated after the Mustache variables have been placed when REST method runs. Manually ensure that the JSON is valid to avoid future validation errors; disregard Mustache variables during your review.
--

Update case URL::
The REST API URL to update the case by ID in the third-party system.
Use the variable selector to add the external system ID to the URL.
If you are using the <<action-settings,`xpack.actions.allowedHosts`>> setting, make sure the hostname is added to the allowed hosts.
For example:
+
[source,text]
--
https://testing-jira.atlassian.net/rest/api/2/issue/{{{external.system.ID}}}
--

Username::
The username for HTTP basic authentication.

[float]
[[cases-webhook-action-configuration]]
=== Test connectors

You can test connectors with the <<execute-connector-api,run connector API>> or
as you're creating or editing the connector in {kib}. For example:

[role="screenshot"]
image::management/connectors/images/cases-webhook-test.gif[{webhook-cm} params test]

{webhook-cm} actions have the following configuration properties:

Additional comments::
Additional information for the client, such as how to troubleshoot the issue.

// Case ID:: TBD

Description::
The details about the incident.

Labels:: The labels for the incident.

// Severity:: TBD

// Status:: TBD

//Summary:: TBD

//Tags:: TBD

Title:: A title for the issue, which is used for searching the contents of the knowledge base.

[float]
[[cases-webhook-connector-networking-configuration]]
=== Connector networking configuration

Use the <<action-settings,action configuration settings>> to customize connector networking configurations, such as proxies, certificates, or TLS settings. You can set configurations that apply to all your connectors or use `xpack.actions.customHostSettings` to set per-host configurations.

////
[float]
[[cases-webhook-connector-full-example]]
== Full example with third-party system

In the following example, we connect the {webhook-cm} Connector with a demo instance of {jira} (a third-party case management system). Refer to the https://developer.atlassian.com/cloud/jira/platform/rest/v2/api-group-issues/[{Jira} API documentation] to learn how to create an issue.

NOTE: If you want to connect with {jira} quickly, we recommend using the <<jira-action-type,preconfigured {jira} connector>>.

[float]
====  Step 1 - Set up connector

In the {webhook-cm} connector create flyout, begin by entering a connector *Name*, for example, `Jira Test Connector`. Basic authentication will be used in this example, so keep the *Require authentication* option selected and enter the *Username* and *Password* for the test instance, for example, `test-user@elastic.co` and `notarealpassword`. We will not be setting any *Headers* for the requests.

[role="screenshot"]
image::management/connectors/images/cases-webhook-step1.png[{webhook-cm} connector Step 1, {jira} example]

[float]
====  Step 2 - Create case

To find the required values for this step, refer to the https://developer.atlassian.com/cloud/jira/platform/rest/v2/api-group-issues/#api-rest-api-2-issue-post[{jira} create issue method documentation].

{jira} create issue request method: `POST`

{jira} create issue request URL: `/rest/api/2/issue`

{jira} create issue request body:
[source,json]
--
{
    "fields": {
        "summary": "Main order flow broken",
        "description": "Order entry fails when selecting supplier.",
        "labels": ["bugfix",  "blitz_test"],
        "project":{"key":"PROJ-123"},
        "issuetype":{"id":"10000"}
    }
}
--

{jira} create issue response body:
[source,json]
--
{
  "id": "10000",
  "key": "ED-24",
  "self": "https://your-domain.atlassian.net/rest/api/2/issue/10000",
  "transition": {
    "status": 200,
    "errorCollection": {
      "errorMessages": [],
      "errors": {}
    }
  }
}
--
In the following screen capture, we enter `POST` as the *Create Case Method* and `https://testing-jira.atlassian.net/rest/api/2/issue` as the **Create Case Url**. In our example {jira} instance, the project key is "ROC" and the issuetype ID is "10024". We have entered the {jira} request JSON as the *Create Case Object*, updating the project key to "ROC" and the issuetype ID to "10024". We then use the Case variable selector to enter where we will map the Kibana case title, Kibana case description, and Kibana case tags. The {jira} response body contains an ID with the JSON key of "id", so we enter `id` as the *Create Case Response - Case ID Key*.
[role="screenshot"]
image::management/connectors/images/cases-webhook-step2.gif[{webhook-cm} connector Step 2, {jira} example]

[float]
====  Step 3 - Get case information

Next we'll need to look at {jira}'s https://developer.atlassian.com/cloud/jira/platform/rest/v2/api-group-issues/#api-rest-api-2-issue-issueidorkey-[Get issue method documentation] to find the values for this step. In the GET response JSON below, we thinned out some null and unrelated data so that we can focus on the fields we need.

{jira} get issue request URL: `/rest/api/2/issue/{issueIdOrKey}`

{jira} get issue response body:
[source,json]
--
{
    "id": "71964",
    "self": "https://testing-jira.atlassian.net/rest/api/2/issue/71964",
    "key": "ROC-584",
    "fields": {
        "issuetype": {
            "self": "https://testing-jira.atlassian.net/rest/api/2/issuetype/10024",
            "id": "10024",
            "description": "An improvement or enhancement to an existing feature or task.",
            "name": "Improvement",
            "subtask": false,
            "avatarId": 10310,
            "hierarchyLevel": 0
        },
        "project": {
            "self": "https://testing-jira.atlassian.net/rest/api/2/project/10021",
            "id": "10021",
            "key": "ROC",
            "name": "ResponseOps Cases",
            "projectTypeKey": "software",
            "simplified": false
        },
        "created": "2022-08-02T16:52:20.554+0300",
        "priority": {
            "name": "Medium",
            "id": "3"
        },
        "labels": ["kibanaTag"],
        "updated": "2022-08-02T16:52:20.554+0300",
        "status": {
            "self": "https://testing-jira.atlassian.net/rest/api/2/status/10003",
            "description": "",
            "name": "To Do",
            "id": "10003",
            "statusCategory": {
                "self": "https://testing-jira.atlassian.net/rest/api/2/statuscategory/2",
                "id": 2,
                "key": "new",
                "colorName": "blue-gray",
                "name": "To Do"
            }
        },
        "description": "Kibana Description",
        "summary": "Kibana Title",
        "creator": {
            "self": "https://testing-jira.atlassian.net/rest/api/2/user?accountId=12345",
            "accountId": "12345",
            "emailAddress": "test-user@elastic.co",
            "displayName": "MLR-QA",
            "active": true,
            "timeZone": "Europe/Athens",
            "accountType": "atlassian"
        },
        "reporter": {
            "self": "https://testing-jira.atlassian.net/rest/api/2/user?accountId=12345",
            "accountId": "12345",
            "emailAddress": "test-user@elastic.co",
            "displayName": "MLR-QA",
            "active": true,
            "timeZone": "Europe/Athens",
            "accountType": "atlassian"
        },
        "comment": {
            "comments": [],
            "self": "https://testing-jira.atlassian.net/rest/api/2/issue/71964/comment",
            "maxResults": 0,
            "total": 0,
            "startAt": 0
        }
    }
}
--

To make the Get Case URL, we need `/rest/api/2/issue/{issueIdOrKey}`. We will fill in the value with the issue ID, which we stored in the last step as *Create Case Response - Case ID Key*. Using the variable selector on the Get Case URL input, we can see the issue ID is stored as a Mustache value `{{{external.system.id}}}`. So our value for *Get Case URL* will be `https://testing-jira.atlassian.net/rest/api/2/issue/{{{external.system.id}}}`.

In the response JSON we can see the title of the case is "ROC-538". The key for this value is `key` so we enter `key` as the *Get Case Response External Title Key* value.

We also need the *External Case View URL*. https://support.atlassian.com/jira-software-cloud/docs/link-an-issue/[{jira}'s documentation] instructs you to get the link from the issue itself. The format for this link looks like `https://<user’s subdomain>.atlassian.net/browse/<issueKey>`. We mapped `key` to the *Get Case Response External Title Key* and using the variable selector on the *External Case View URL* input, we can see the issue key is stored as a Mustache value `{{{external.system.title}}}`. Using this, the value for *External Case View URL* is `https://testing-jira.atlassian.net/browse/{{{external.system.title}}}`.
[role="screenshot"]
image::management/connectors/images/cases-webhook-step3.gif[{webhook-cm} connector Step 3, {jira} example]

[float]
====  Step 4 - Comments and updates

During this step, we need to set the REST API data for updates and comments. Let's look at {jira}'s https://developer.atlassian.com/cloud/jira/platform/rest/v2/api-group-issues/#api-rest-api-2-issue-issueidorkey-put[Edit issue documentation].

{jira} update issue request method: `PUT`

{jira} update issue request URL: `/rest/api/2/issue/{issueIdOrKey}`

{jira} update issue request body:
[source,json]
--
{
    "fields": {
        "summary": "Main order flow broken",
        "description": "Order entry fails when selecting supplier.",
        "labels": ["bugfix",  "blitz_test"],
        "project":{"key":"PROJ-123"},
        "issuetype":{"id":"10000"}
    }
}
--

In the screen capture below, on Step 4 we enter `PUT` as the *Update Case Method* and `https://testing-jira.atlassian.net/rest/api/2/issue/{{{external.system.id}}}` as the **Update Case Url** using the variable selector to insert the `{{{external.system.id}}}`. Just like the create case JSON, have entered the {jira} request JSON as the *Update Case Object*, updating the project key to "ROC" and the issuetype ID to "10024". We then use the Case variable selector to enter where we will map the Kibana case title, Kibana case description, and Kibana case tags.
[role="screenshot"]
image::management/connectors/images/cases-webhook-step4a.gif[{webhook-cm} connector Step 4 Update, {jira} example]

Lastly we will look at {jira}'s https://developer.atlassian.com/cloud/jira/platform/rest/v2/api-group-issue-comments/#api-rest-api-2-issue-issueidorkey-comment-post[Add comment documentation] to fill out the optional comment REST fields.

{jira} create comment request method: `POST`

{jira} create comment request URL: `/rest/api/2/issue/{issueIdOrKey}/comment`

{jira} create comment request body:
[source,json]
--
{
    "body": "Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet."
}
--

In the following screen capture, we enter `POST` as the *Create Comment Method* and `https://testing-jira.atlassian.net/rest/api/2/issue/{{{external.system.id}}}/comment` as the **Create Comment Url** using the variable selector to insert the `{{{external.system.id}}}`. We enter the {jira} request JSON as the *Create Comment Object*, using the case variable selector to enter where we will map the case comment.
[role="screenshot"]
image::management/connectors/images/cases-webhook-step4b.gif[{webhook-cm} connector Step 4 Comments, {jira} example]

[float]
[[cases-webhook-example-implementation]]
=== Implement connector in Kibana Cases
Let's take a look at how our new {webhook-cm} connector works within the case workflow.

[float]
====  Create a case
[role="screenshot"]
image::management/connectors/images/cases-webhook-create.gif[{webhook-cm} connector Create, {jira} example]

[float]
====  Update and comment on a case
[role="screenshot"]
image::management/connectors/images/cases-webhook-update.gif[{webhook-cm} connector Update, {jira} example]
////
