docs/management/connectors/action-types/jira.asciidoc, before:

[[jira-action-type]]
== Jira connector and action
++++
<titleabbrev>Jira</titleabbrev>
++++
:frontmatter-description: Add a connector that can create indicidents in Jira.
:frontmatter-tags-products: [kibana] 
:frontmatter-tags-content-type: [how-to] 
:frontmatter-tags-user-goals: [configure]

The Jira connector uses the https://developer.atlassian.com/cloud/jira/platform/rest/v2/[REST API v2] to create Atlassian Jira issues.

[float]
[[jira-compatibility]]
=== Compatibility

Jira on-premise deployments (Server and Data Center) are not supported.

[float]
[[define-jira-ui]]
=== Create connectors in {kib}

You can create connectors in *{stack-manage-app} > {connectors-ui}*
or as needed when you're creating a rule. For example:

[role="screenshot"]
image::management/connectors/images/jira-connector.png[Jira connector]
// NOTE: This is an autogenerated screenshot. Do not edit it directly.

[float]
[[jira-connector-configuration]]
==== Connector configuration

Jira connectors have the following configuration properties:

Name::      The name of the connector.
URL::       Jira instance URL.
Project key:: Jira project key.
Email::  The account email for HTTP Basic authentication.
API token::  Jira API authentication token for HTTP Basic authentication.

[float]
[[jira-action-configuration]]
=== Test connectors

You can test connectors with the <<execute-connector-api,run connector API>> or
as you're creating or editing the connector in {kib}. For example:

[role="screenshot"]
image::management/connectors/images/jira-params-test.png[Jira params test]
// NOTE: This is an autogenerated screenshot. Do not edit it directly.

Jira actions have the following configuration properties.

Issue type:: The type of the issue.
Priority:: The priority of the incident.
Labels:: The labels for the incident.
Title:: A title for the issue, used for searching the contents of the knowledge base.
Description:: The details about the incident.
Parent:: The ID or key of the parent issue. Only for `Subtask` issue types.
Additional comments:: Additional information for the client, such as how to troubleshoot the issue.

[float]
[[jira-connector-networking-configuration]]
=== Connector networking configuration

Use the <<action-settings, Action configuration settings>> to customize connector networking configurations, such as proxies, certificates, or TLS settings. You can set configurations that apply to all your connectors or use `xpack.actions.customHostSettings` to set per-host configurations.

Commit message:

[DOCS] Add custom fields to Jira connector

docs/management/connectors/action-types/jira.asciidoc, after:

[[jira-action-type]]
== Jira connector and action
++++
<titleabbrev>Jira</titleabbrev>
++++
:frontmatter-description: Add a connector that can create indicidents in Jira.
:frontmatter-tags-products: [kibana] 
:frontmatter-tags-content-type: [how-to] 
:frontmatter-tags-user-goals: [configure]

The Jira connector uses the https://developer.atlassian.com/cloud/jira/platform/rest/v2/[REST API v2] to create Atlassian Jira issues.

[float]
[[jira-compatibility]]
=== Compatibility

Jira on-premise deployments (Server and Data Center) are not supported.

[float]
[[define-jira-ui]]
=== Create connectors in {kib}

You can create connectors in *{stack-manage-app} > {connectors-ui}*
or as needed when you're creating a rule. For example:

[role="screenshot"]
image::management/connectors/images/jira-connector.png[Jira connector]
// NOTE: This is an autogenerated screenshot. Do not edit it directly.

[float]
[[jira-connector-configuration]]
==== Connector configuration

Jira connectors have the following configuration properties:

Name::      The name of the connector.
URL::       Jira instance URL.
Project key:: Jira project key.
Email::  The account email for HTTP Basic authentication.
API token::  Jira API authentication token for HTTP Basic authentication.

[float]
[[jira-action-configuration]]
=== Test connectors

You can test connectors with the <<execute-connector-api,run connector API>> or
as you're creating or editing the connector in {kib}. For example:

[role="screenshot"]
image::management/connectors/images/jira-params-test.png[Jira params test]
// NOTE: This is an autogenerated screenshot. Do not edit it directly.

Jira actions have the following configuration properties.

Issue type:: The type of the issue.
Priority:: The priority of the incident.
Labels:: The labels for the incident.
Title:: A title for the issue, used for searching the contents of the knowledge base.
Description:: The details about the incident.
Parent:: The ID or key of the parent issue. Only for `Subtask` issue types.
Additional comments:: Additional information for the client, such as how to troubleshoot the issue.
Additional fields::
An object that contains custom field names and values. These custom fields must comply with your Jira policies; they are not validated by the connector. For example, if a rule action does not include custom fields that are mandatory, the action might fail.


[float]
[[jira-connector-networking-configuration]]
=== Connector networking configuration

Use the <<action-settings, Action configuration settings>> to customize connector networking configurations, such as proxies, certificates, or TLS settings. You can set configurations that apply to all your connectors or use `xpack.actions.customHostSettings` to set per-host configurations.
