docs/management/connectors/action-types/server-log.asciidoc, before:

[[server-log-action-type]]
== Server log connector and action
++++
<titleabbrev>Server log</titleabbrev>
++++

A server log connector writes an entry to the {kib} server log.

You can create a server log connectors in {kib} or by using the
<<create-connector-api,create connector API>>.

[float]
[[define-serverlog-ui]]
=== Create connectors in {kib}

You can create connectors in *{stack-manage-app} > {connectors-ui}*
or as needed when you're creating a rule. For example:

[role="screenshot"]
image::management/connectors/images/serverlog-connector.png[Server log connector]
// NOTE: This is an autogenerated screenshot. Do not edit it directly.

[float]
[[server-log-connector-configuration]]
==== Connector configuration

Server log connectors do not have any configuration properties other than a name.

[float]
[[server-log-action-configuration]]
=== Test connectors

You can test connectors with the <<execute-connector-api,run connector API>> or
as you're creating or editing the connector in {kib}. For example:

[role="screenshot"]
image::management/connectors/images/serverlog-params-test.png[Server log connector test]
// NOTE: This is an autogenerated screenshot. Do not edit it directly.

Server log connector actions contain a message and a log level, which defaults to `info`. Valid log level values are `trace`, `debug`, `info`, `warn`, `error`,
and `fatal`.

Commit message:

[DOCS] Add frontmatter; remove API links

docs/management/connectors/action-types/server-log.asciidoc, after:

[[server-log-action-type]]
== Server log connector and action
++++
<titleabbrev>Server log</titleabbrev>
++++
:frontmatter-description: Add a connector that can write in {kib} server logs.
:frontmatter-tags-products: [kibana] 
:frontmatter-tags-content-type: [how-to] 
:frontmatter-tags-user-goals: [configure]

A server log connector writes an entry to the {kib} server log.

[float]
[[define-serverlog-ui]]
=== Create connectors in {kib}

You can create connectors in *{stack-manage-app} > {connectors-ui}*
or as needed when you're creating a rule. For example:

[role="screenshot"]
image::management/connectors/images/serverlog-connector.png[Server log connector]
// NOTE: This is an autogenerated screenshot. Do not edit it directly.

[float]
[[server-log-connector-configuration]]
==== Connector configuration

Server log connectors do not have any configuration properties other than a name.

[float]
[[server-log-action-configuration]]
=== Test connectors

You can test connectors as you're creating or editing the connector in {kib}.
For example:

[role="screenshot"]
image::management/connectors/images/serverlog-params-test.png[Server log connector test]
// NOTE: This is an autogenerated screenshot. Do not edit it directly.

Server log connector actions contain a message and a log level, which defaults to `info`. Valid log level values are `trace`, `debug`, `info`, `warn`, `error`,
and `fatal`.
