docs/management/connectors/action-types/thehive.asciidoc, before:

[[thehive-action-type]]
== TheHive connector and action
++++
<titleabbrev>TheHive</titleabbrev>
++++
:frontmatter-description: Add a connector that can create cases and alerts in TheHive.
:frontmatter-tags-products: [kibana]
:frontmatter-tags-content-type: [how-to]
:frontmatter-tags-user-goals: [configure]

TheHive connector uses the https://docs.strangebee.com/thehive/api-docs/[TheHive (v1) REST API] to create cases and alerts.

[float]
[[define-thehive-ui]]
=== Create connectors in {kib}

You can create connectors in *{stack-manage-app} > {connectors-ui}*
or as needed when you're creating a rule. For example:

[role="screenshot"]
image::management/connectors/images/thehive-connector.png[TheHive connector]
// NOTE: This is an autogenerated screenshot. Do not edit it directly.

[float]
[[thehive-connector-configuration]]
==== Connector configuration

TheHive connectors have the following configuration properties:

Name::         The name of the connector.
Organisation:: Organisation name in which user intends to create cases or alerts.
URL::          TheHive instance URL.
API Key::      TheHive API key for authentication.

[float]
[[thehive-action-configuration]]
=== Test connectors

You can test connectors for creating a case or an alert with the <<execute-connector-api,run connector API>> or
as you're creating or editing the connector in {kib}. For example:

[role="screenshot"]
image::management/connectors/images/thehive-params-case-test.png[TheHive case params test]
// NOTE: This is an autogenerated screenshot. Do not edit it directly.

[role="screenshot"]
image::management/connectors/images/thehive-params-alert-test.png[TheHive alert params test]
// NOTE: This is an autogenerated screenshot. Do not edit it directly.

TheHive actions have the following configuration properties.

Event Action:: Action that will be performed in thehive. Supported actions are Create Case (default) and Create Alert.
Title:: Title of the incident.
Description:: The details about the incident.
Severity:: Severity of the incident. This can be one of `LOW`, `MEDIUM`(default), `HIGH` or `CRITICAL`.
TLP:: Traffic Light Protocol designation for the incident. This can be one of `CLEAR`, `GREEN`, `AMBER`(default), `AMBER+STRICT` or `RED`.
Tags:: The keywords or tags about the incident.
Additional comments:: Additional information about the Case.
Type:: Type of the Alert.
Source:: Source of the Alert.
Source Reference:: Source reference of the Alert.

[float]
[[thehive-features]]
=== Features

1. Rule base creation of alerts and cases.
2. Create case, Update case.

[NOTE]
====
* For update case, status of the case is not sync with the kibana case.
====

[float]
[[thehive-connector-networking-configuration]]
=== Connector networking configuration

Use the <<action-settings, Action configuration settings>> to customize connector networking configurations, such as proxies, certificates, or TLS settings. You can set configurations that apply to all your connectors or use `xpack.actions.customHostSettings` to set per-host configurations.

[float]
[[configure-thehive]]
=== Configure TheHive

To generate an API Key in TheHive:

1. Log in to your TheHive instance.
2. Open profile tab and select the settings.
3. Go to *API Key*.
4. Click *Create* if no API key has been created previously; otherwise, you can view the API key by clicking on *Reveal*.
5. Copy the *API key* value to configure the connector in {kib}.

Commit message:

[DOCS] Automates TheHive connector screenshots; edits UI text (#192506)
Co-authored-by: Antonio <antoniodcoelho@gmail.com>

docs/management/connectors/action-types/thehive.asciidoc, after:

[[thehive-action-type]]
== TheHive connector and action
++++
<titleabbrev>TheHive</titleabbrev>
++++
:frontmatter-description: Add a connector that can create cases and alerts in TheHive.
:frontmatter-tags-products: [kibana]
:frontmatter-tags-content-type: [how-to]
:frontmatter-tags-user-goals: [configure]

TheHive connector uses the https://docs.strangebee.com/thehive/api-docs/[TheHive (v1) REST API] to create cases and alerts. added:[8.16.0]

[NOTE]
====
If you use this connector with <<cases,cases>>, the status values differ in {kib} and TheHive.
The status values are not synchronized when you update a case.
====

[float]
[[define-thehive-ui]]
=== Create connectors in {kib}

You can create connectors in *{stack-manage-app} > {connectors-ui}*
or as needed when you're creating a rule. For example:

[role="screenshot"]
image::management/connectors/images/thehive-connector.png[TheHive connector]
// NOTE: This is an autogenerated screenshot. Do not edit it directly.

[float]
[[thehive-connector-configuration]]
==== Connector configuration

TheHive connectors have the following configuration properties:

Name::         The name of the connector.
Organisation:: The organisation in TheHive that will contain the cases or alerts.
URL::          The instance URL in TheHive.
API key::      The API key for authentication in TheHive.

[float]
[[thehive-action-configuration]]
=== Test connectors

You can test connectors for creating a case or an alert with the <<execute-connector-api,run connector API>> or
as you're creating or editing the connector in {kib}. For example:

[role="screenshot"]
image::management/connectors/images/thehive-params-case-test.png[TheHive case params test]
// NOTE: This is an autogenerated screenshot. Do not edit it directly.

[role="screenshot"]
image::management/connectors/images/thehive-params-alert-test.png[TheHive alert params test]
// NOTE: This is an autogenerated screenshot. Do not edit it directly.

TheHive actions have the following configuration properties.

Event action:: The action that will be performed in TheHive: create a case or an alert.
Title:: The title of the incident.
Description:: The details about the incident.
Severity:: The severity of the incident: `LOW`, `MEDIUM`, `HIGH` or `CRITICAL`.
TLP:: The traffic light protocol designation for the incident: `CLEAR`, `GREEN`, `AMBER`, `AMBER+STRICT` or `RED`.
Tags:: The keywords or tags for the incident.
Additional comments:: Additional information about the incident.
Type:: The type of alert.
Source:: The source of the alert.
Source reference:: A source reference for the alert.

[float]
[[thehive-connector-networking-configuration]]
=== Connector networking configuration

Use the <<action-settings, Action configuration settings>> to customize connector networking configurations, such as proxies, certificates, or TLS settings. You can set configurations that apply to all your connectors or use `xpack.actions.customHostSettings` to set per-host configurations.

[float]
[[configure-thehive]]
=== Configure TheHive

To generate an API key in TheHive:

1. Log in to your TheHive instance.
2. Open profile tab and select the settings.
3. Go to *API Key*.
4. Click *Create* if no API key has been created previously; otherwise, you can view the API key by clicking on *Reveal*.
5. Copy the *API key* value to configure the connector in {kib}.
