docs/management/connectors/action-types/webhook.asciidoc, before:

[[webhook-action-type]]
== Webhook connector and action
++++
<titleabbrev>Webhook</titleabbrev>
++++

The Webhook connector uses https://github.com/axios/axios[axios] to send a POST or PUT request to a web service.

[float]
[[define-webhook-ui]]
=== Create connectors in {kib}

You can create connectors in *{stack-manage-app} > {connectors-ui}*
or as needed when you're creating a rule. For example:

[role="screenshot"]
image::management/connectors/images/webhook-connector.png[Webhook connector]

[float]
[[webhook-connector-configuration]]
==== Connector configuration

Webhook connectors have the following configuration properties:

Name::      The name of the connector.
URL::       The request URL. If you are using the <<action-settings, `xpack.actions.allowedHosts`>> setting, make sure the hostname is added to the allowed hosts.
Method::    HTTP request method, either `post`(default) or `put`.
Headers::   A set of key-value pairs sent as headers with the request
Require authentication:: If true, a username and password for login type authentication must be provided.
Username::      Username for HTTP basic authentication.
Password::  Password for HTTP basic authentication.

[float]
[[preconfigured-webhook-configuration]]
=== Create preconfigured connectors

If you are running {kib} on-prem, you can define connectors by
adding `xpack.actions.preconfigured` settings to your `kibana.yml` file.
For example:

[source,text]
--
xpack.actions.preconfigured:
  my-webhook:
    name: preconfigured-webhook-connector-type
    actionTypeId: .webhook
    config:
      url: https://test.host
      method: post
      headers:
        testheader: testvalue
    secrets:
      user: testuser
      password: passwordkeystorevalue
--

Config defines information for the connector type.

`url`:: A URL string that corresponds to *URL*.
`method`:: A string that corresponds to *Method*.
`headers`:: A record<string, string> that corresponds to *Headers*.
`hasAuth`:: A boolean that corresponds to *Requires authentication*. If `true`, this connector will require values for `user` and `password` inside the secrets configuration. Defaults to `true`.

Secrets defines sensitive information for the connector type.

`user`:: A string that corresponds to *User*. Required if `hasAuth` is set to `true`.
`password`:: A string that corresponds to *Password*. Should be stored in the <<creating-keystore, {kib} keystore>>. Required if `hasAuth` is set to `true`.

[float]
[[webhook-action-configuration]]
=== Test connectors

You can test connectors with the <<execute-connector-api,run connector API>> or
as you're creating or editing the connector in {kib}. For example:

[role="screenshot"]
image::management/connectors/images/webhook-params-test.png[Webhook params test]

Webhook actions have the following properties.

Body::      A JSON payload sent to the request URL. For example: 
+
[source,text]
--
{
  "short_description": "{{context.rule.name}}",
  "description": "{{context.rule.description}}",
  ...
}
--

Mustache template variables (the text enclosed in double braces, for example, `context.rule.name`) have
their values escaped, so that the final JSON will be valid (escaping double quote characters).
For more information on Mustache template variables, refer to <<defining-rules-actions-details>>.

[float]
[[webhook-connector-networking-configuration]]
=== Connector networking configuration

Use the <<action-settings, Action configuration settings>> to customize connector networking configurations, such as proxies, certificates, or TLS settings. You can set configurations that apply to all your connectors or use `xpack.actions.customHostSettings` to set per-host configurations.

Commit message:

[8.10] [DOCS] Automate webhook connector screenshots (#163893) (#164488)
# Backport

This will backport the following commits from `main` to `8.10`:
- [[DOCS] Automate webhook connector screenshots
(#163893)](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/163893)

<!--- Backport version: 8.9.7 -->

### Questions ?
Please refer to the [Backport tool
documentation](https://github.com/sqren/backport)

<!--BACKPORT [{"author":{"name":"Lisa
Cawley","email":"lcawley@elastic.co"},"sourceCommit":{"committedDate":"2023-08-22T17:28:45Z","message":"[DOCS]
Automate webhook connector screenshots
(#163893)","sha":"2b8fcab770f687383eb9c0c8690758daeb69ab84","branchLabelMapping":{"^v8.11.0$":"main","^v(\\d+).(\\d+).\\d+$":"$1.$2"}},"sourcePullRequest":{"labels":["release_note:skip","Team:ResponseOps","docs","Feature:Actions/ConnectorTypes","backport:prev-minor","v8.10.0","v8.11.0"],"number":163893,"url":"https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/163893","mergeCommit":{"message":"[DOCS]
Automate webhook connector screenshots
(#163893)","sha":"2b8fcab770f687383eb9c0c8690758daeb69ab84"}},"sourceBranch":"main","suggestedTargetBranches":["8.10"],"targetPullRequestStates":[{"branch":"8.10","label":"v8.10.0","labelRegex":"^v(\\d+).(\\d+).\\d+$","isSourceBranch":false,"state":"NOT_CREATED"},{"branch":"main","label":"v8.11.0","labelRegex":"^v8.11.0$","isSourceBranch":true,"state":"MERGED","url":"https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/163893","number":163893,"mergeCommit":{"message":"[DOCS]
Automate webhook connector screenshots
(#163893)","sha":"2b8fcab770f687383eb9c0c8690758daeb69ab84"}}]}]
BACKPORT-->

Co-authored-by: Lisa Cawley <lcawley@elastic.co>

docs/management/connectors/action-types/webhook.asciidoc, after:

[[webhook-action-type]]
== Webhook connector and action
++++
<titleabbrev>Webhook</titleabbrev>
++++
:frontmatter-description: Add a connector that can send requests to a web service.
:frontmatter-tags-products: [alerting]
:frontmatter-tags-content-type: [how-to]
:frontmatter-tags-user-goals: [configure]

The Webhook connector uses https://github.com/axios/axios[axios] to send a POST or PUT request to a web service.

[float]
[[define-webhook-ui]]
=== Create connectors in {kib}

You can create connectors in *{stack-manage-app} > {connectors-ui}*
or as needed when you're creating a rule. For example:

[role="screenshot"]
image::management/connectors/images/webhook-connector.png[Webhook connector]
// NOTE: This is an autogenerated screenshot. Do not edit it directly.

[float]
[[webhook-connector-configuration]]
==== Connector configuration

Webhook connectors have the following configuration properties:

Name::      The name of the connector.
URL::       The request URL. If you are using the <<action-settings, `xpack.actions.allowedHosts`>> setting, make sure the hostname is added to the allowed hosts.
Method::    HTTP request method, either `post`(default) or `put`.
Headers::   A set of key-value pairs sent as headers with the request
Require authentication:: If true, a username and password for login type authentication must be provided.
Username::      Username for HTTP basic authentication.
Password::  Password for HTTP basic authentication.

[float]
[[preconfigured-webhook-configuration]]
=== Create preconfigured connectors

If you are running {kib} on-prem, you can define connectors by
adding `xpack.actions.preconfigured` settings to your `kibana.yml` file.
For example:

[source,text]
--
xpack.actions.preconfigured:
  my-webhook:
    name: preconfigured-webhook-connector-type
    actionTypeId: .webhook
    config:
      url: https://test.host
      method: post
      headers:
        testheader: testvalue
    secrets:
      user: testuser
      password: passwordkeystorevalue
--

Config defines information for the connector type.

`url`:: A URL string that corresponds to *URL*.
`method`:: A string that corresponds to *Method*.
`headers`:: A record<string, string> that corresponds to *Headers*.
`hasAuth`:: A boolean that corresponds to *Requires authentication*. If `true`, this connector will require values for `user` and `password` inside the secrets configuration. Defaults to `true`.

Secrets defines sensitive information for the connector type.

`user`:: A string that corresponds to *User*. Required if `hasAuth` is set to `true`.
`password`:: A string that corresponds to *Password*. Should be stored in the <<creating-keystore, {kib} keystore>>. Required if `hasAuth` is set to `true`.

[float]
[[webhook-action-configuration]]
=== Test connectors

You can test connectors with the <<execute-connector-api,run connector API>> or
as you're creating or editing the connector in {kib}. For example:

[role="screenshot"]
image::management/connectors/images/webhook-params-test.png[Webhook params test]
// NOTE: This is an autogenerated screenshot. Do not edit it directly.

Webhook actions have the following properties.

Body::      A JSON payload sent to the request URL. For example: 
+
[source,text]
--
{
  "short_description": "{{context.rule.name}}",
  "description": "{{context.rule.description}}",
  ...
}
--

Mustache template variables (the text enclosed in double braces, for example, `context.rule.name`) have
their values escaped, so that the final JSON will be valid (escaping double quote characters).
For more information on Mustache template variables, refer to <<defining-rules-actions-details>>.

[float]
[[webhook-connector-networking-configuration]]
=== Connector networking configuration

Use the <<action-settings, Action configuration settings>> to customize connector networking configurations, such as proxies, certificates, or TLS settings. You can set configurations that apply to all your connectors or use `xpack.actions.customHostSettings` to set per-host configurations.
