docs/user/setup.asciidoc, before:

[[setup]]
= Set up

[partintro]
--
This section includes information on how to setup Kibana and get it running,
including:

* Downloading
* Installing
* Starting
* Configuring
* Upgrading

[[supported-platforms]]
[float]
== Supported platforms

Packages of Kibana are provided for and tested against Linux, Darwin, and
Windows. Since Kibana runs on Node.js, we include the necessary Node.js
binaries for these platforms. Running Kibana against a separately maintained
version of Node.js is not supported.

[float]
[[elasticsearch-version]]
== Elasticsearch version

Kibana should be configured to run against an Elasticsearch node of the same
version. This is the officially supported configuration.

Running different major version releases of Kibana and Elasticsearch (e.g.
Kibana 5.x and Elasticsearch 2.x) is not supported, nor is running a minor
version of Kibana that is newer than the version of Elasticsearch (e.g. Kibana
5.1 and Elasticsearch 5.0).

Running a minor version of Elasticsearch that is higher than Kibana will
generally work in order to facilitate an upgrade process where Elasticsearch
is upgraded first (e.g. Kibana 5.0 and Elasticsearch 5.1). In this
configuration, a warning will be logged on Kibana server startup, so it's only
meant to be temporary until Kibana is upgraded to the same version as
Elasticsearch.

Running different patch version releases of Kibana and Elasticsearch (e.g.
Kibana 5.0.0 and Elasticsearch 5.0.1) is generally supported, though we
encourage users to run the same versions of Kibana and Elasticsearch down to
the patch version.
--

include::{kib-repo-dir}/setup/install.asciidoc[]

include::{kib-repo-dir}/setup/settings.asciidoc[]

include::{kib-repo-dir}/setup/start-stop.asciidoc[]

include::{kib-repo-dir}/setup/access.asciidoc[]

include::security/tutorials/how-to-secure-access-to-kibana.asciidoc[]

include::{kib-repo-dir}/setup/connect-to-elasticsearch.asciidoc[]

include::{kib-repo-dir}/setup/upgrade.asciidoc[]

include::security/securing-kibana.asciidoc[]

include::{kib-repo-dir}/setup/configuring-reporting.asciidoc[]

include::monitoring/configuring-monitoring.asciidoc[leveloffset=+1]
include::monitoring/monitoring-metricbeat.asciidoc[leveloffset=+2]
include::monitoring/viewing-metrics.asciidoc[leveloffset=+2]
include::monitoring/monitoring-kibana.asciidoc[leveloffset=+2]

Commit message:

[Ops] Bump Node.js to version 18 (#160289)
## Summary

Bumps node.js to 18.17.0 (replacement for PR #144012 which was later
reverted)

As a result, these categorical additions were needed:
- `node` evocations will need the `--openssl-legacy-provider` flag,
wherever it would use certain crypto functionalities
- tests required updating of the expected HTTPS Agent call arguments,
`noDelay` seems to be a default
 - `window.[NAME]` fields cannot be written directly
 - some stricter typechecks

This is using our in-house built node.js 18 versions through the URLs
the proxy-cache. (built with
https://github.com/elastic/kibana-custom-nodejs-builds/pull/4)

These urls are served from a bucket, where the RHEL7/Centos7 compatible
node distributables are. (see:
https://github.com/elastic/kibana-ci-proxy-cache/pull/7)

Further todos:
 - [x] check docs wording and consistency
 - [ ] update the dependency report
 - [x] explain custom builds in documentation
 - [x] node_sass prebuilts

---------

Co-authored-by: Kibana Machine <42973632+kibanamachine@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Tiago Costa <tiago.costa@elastic.co>
Co-authored-by: Thomas Watson <w@tson.dk>

docs/user/setup.asciidoc, after:

[[setup]]
= Set up

[partintro]
--
This section includes information on how to setup Kibana and get it running,
including:

* Downloading
* Installing
* Starting
* Configuring
* Upgrading

[[supported-platforms]]
[float]
== Supported platforms

Packages of Kibana are provided for and tested against Linux, Darwin, and
Windows. Since Kibana runs on Node.js, we include the necessary Node.js
binaries for these platforms. Running Kibana against a separately maintained
version of Node.js is not supported.

To support certain older Linux platforms (most notably CentOS7/RHEL7), {kib}
for Linux ships with a custom build of Node.js with glibc 2.17 support. For
details, see <<custom-nodejs-builds>>.

[float]
[[elasticsearch-version]]
== Elasticsearch version

Kibana should be configured to run against an Elasticsearch node of the same
version. This is the officially supported configuration.

Running different major version releases of Kibana and Elasticsearch (e.g.
Kibana 5.x and Elasticsearch 2.x) is not supported, nor is running a minor
version of Kibana that is newer than the version of Elasticsearch (e.g. Kibana
5.1 and Elasticsearch 5.0).

Running a minor version of Elasticsearch that is higher than Kibana will
generally work in order to facilitate an upgrade process where Elasticsearch
is upgraded first (e.g. Kibana 5.0 and Elasticsearch 5.1). In this
configuration, a warning will be logged on Kibana server startup, so it's only
meant to be temporary until Kibana is upgraded to the same version as
Elasticsearch.

Running different patch version releases of Kibana and Elasticsearch (e.g.
Kibana 5.0.0 and Elasticsearch 5.0.1) is generally supported, though we
encourage users to run the same versions of Kibana and Elasticsearch down to
the patch version.
--

include::{kib-repo-dir}/setup/install.asciidoc[]

include::{kib-repo-dir}/setup/settings.asciidoc[]

include::{kib-repo-dir}/setup/start-stop.asciidoc[]

include::{kib-repo-dir}/setup/access.asciidoc[]

include::security/tutorials/how-to-secure-access-to-kibana.asciidoc[]

include::{kib-repo-dir}/setup/connect-to-elasticsearch.asciidoc[]

include::{kib-repo-dir}/setup/upgrade.asciidoc[]

include::security/securing-kibana.asciidoc[]

include::{kib-repo-dir}/setup/configuring-reporting.asciidoc[]

include::monitoring/configuring-monitoring.asciidoc[leveloffset=+1]
include::monitoring/monitoring-metricbeat.asciidoc[leveloffset=+2]
include::monitoring/viewing-metrics.asciidoc[leveloffset=+2]
include::monitoring/monitoring-kibana.asciidoc[leveloffset=+2]
