docs/user/whats-new.asciidoc, before:

[[whats-new]]
== What's new in {minor-version}

++++
<titleabbrev>What's new in {minor-version}</titleabbrev>
++++

Here are the highlights of what's new and improved in {minor-version}.
For detailed information about this release,
check out the {kibana-ref-all}/7.10/release-notes.html[release notes] and
{kibana-ref-all}/7.10/breaking-changes.html[breaking changes].

Other versions: {kibana-ref-all}/7.9/whats-new.html[7.9] | {kibana-ref-all}/7.8/whats-new.html[7.8] | {kibana-ref-all}/7.7/release-highlights-7.7.0.html[7.7] |
{kibana-ref-all}/7.6/release-highlights-7.6.0.html[7.6] | {kibana-ref-all}/7.5/release-highlights-7.5.0.html[7.5] |
{kibana-ref-all}/7.4/release-highlights-7.4.0.html[7.4] | {kibana-ref-all}/7.3/release-highlights-7.3.0.html[7.3] | {kibana-ref-all}/7.2/release-highlights-7.2.0.html[7.2]
| {kibana-ref-all}/7.1/release-highlights-7.1.0.html[7.1] | {kibana-ref-all}/7.0/release-highlights-7.0.0.html[7.0]


//NOTE: The notable-highlights tagged regions are re-used in the
//Installation and Upgrade Guide

// tag::notable-highlights[]

[float]
[[new-home-and-landing-page]]
=== New home and landing page

With so many exciting additions to {kib}, it can be challenging to choose a
path forward. As a result, we have a renewed focus on the initial user experience,
beginning with a new home page.
The new version focuses on core solutions and use cases.

[role="screenshot"]
image::user/images/new-home-page.png[New home and landing page]

Extending from the home page, you're now guided toward solution-focused
landing pages that assist in adding data and introducing underlying capabilities.
These new pages help users, both new and experienced, get started with all that {kib} has to offer.


[role="screenshot"]
image::user/images/landing-page.png[Solution-focused landing page]

[float]
[[stack-header-and-navigational-search]]
=== Global header with navigational search

In 7.8, we introduced a new and improved main menu as part of our
quest for the optimal navigation design.
In 7.10, we’ve revealed more of the picture, with the
addition of a global header that includes a
navigational search.
Using a keyboard shortcut (Ctrl+/ on Windows and Linux; Command+/ on MacOS),
you can now jump between applications and saved objects,
including dashboards, visualizations, workpads, saved searches, and more.

[role="screenshot"]
image::user/images/navigational-search.png[New home and landing page]

[float]
[[lens-generally-available]]
=== Lens is generally available

To further our commitment to the ongoing journey of making {kib} an incredible
visual data analytics experience for everyone, regardless of technical background, we've made
*Lens* generally available. Now users whose companies limit the use of
beta software or services in production can leverage the visualization and analytics
capabilities that *Lens* provides.

*Lens* also introduces two new chart types.
Depending on the type of data you are visualizing, *Lens* can now build
percentage bar charts and percentage area charts.

[role="screenshot"]
image::user/images/lens-whats-new.png[Percentage bar chart in Lens]

For more information, refer to the {kibana-ref}/dashboard.html#lens[documentation].

[float]
[[drilldowns-to-urls]]
=== Drilldown to URL

beta[] In 7.8, we introduced a dashboard-to-dashboard drilldown that lets you quickly create
custom navigation paths between dashboards, carrying over the filter and
time context. Now you can also create a navigation path from a dashboard to an internal or external
URL.
This functionality is available with a https://www.elastic.co/subscriptions[Gold subscription] or higher.
For more information, refer to the {kibana-ref}/url-drilldown.html[URL drilldown documentation].

[role="screenshot"]
image::user/images/drilldown-to-url.png[Drilldown to Url on dashboard panel]

[float]
[[maps-enhancements]]
=== New ways to act on geospatial data

Maps and dashboards now work better together.
First, you can use maps with {kibana-ref}/dashboard-drilldown.html[dashboard drilldowns].
Second, when authoring a dashboard, you can create a map, save the map,
and then return to the dashboard in your workflow.

*Maps* also has new ways to work with your data.  You can now automatically
fit “data to bounds,” keeping your data at the center of attention.
It’s also easier to work with your data if it’s coming from a CSV file. Using the
*File Data Visualizer* in *Machine Learning*, if you import a CSV file with latitude and longitude fields,
the fields are automatically converted to a `geo_point` field.

[role="screenshot"]
image::user/images/maps-new.png[File upload of a CSV file with latitude and longitude fields]

**Maps** also has a new tracking alert experimental[] for monitoring the location of
entities in relation to area of interest boundaries. Also the new vector
tile rendering enables you to work with more data at faster speeds.

[float]
[[vega-generally-available]]
=== Vega is generally available

*Vega*, an advanced editor you use to create custom panels in dashboards, is production ready.
Now users whose companies limit the use of beta software or services in production can leverage the full visualization customization capabilities that Vega provides.

[role="screenshot"]
image::user/images/vega-new.png[Percentage bar chart in Lens]

For information about Vega, refer to the {kibana-ref}/dashboard.html#vega[documentation].

[float]
[[alerts-new-connectors]]
=== New connectors for alerts

In 7.10, we extended our offering of connectors
by adding the {kibana-ref}/jira-action-type.html[Jira] and
{kibana-ref}/resilient-action-type.html[IBM Resilient connectors] for
use with all alert types. Also,
you can now test if a connector works before using
it with your alerts, so you won't lose notifications due to setup errors.

[role="screenshot"]
image::user/images/edit-connector.png[Connector test3]

[float]
[[alerts-rbac]]
=== Role-based access control in Alerts and Actions

**Alerts and Actions** now has role-based access control, so
you can secure alerts based on your organization’s access model. Each
Elastic solution determines access to its own alert types, and users
without access to a solution, will not be able to access its alerts.

A feature control for stack alerts is now included in the
*Role* definition page. This currently
includes the index threshold alert type, with more stack alerts to follow in future releases.
The `all` privilege to stack alerts gives users the
ability to create and edit alerts, and the
`read` privilege allows users to view the alerts.

The new feature control for actions and connectors
controls which roles can create connectors and attach actions to alerts.
The `all` privilege to *Actions and Connectors* enables users to
create and edit connectors, and the
the `read` privileges allows users to view connectors and attach actions to alerts.

NOTE: If you upgrade from a previous version,
any alerts created by a user who does not have access to the
alert types in applied in the 7.10 RBAC model, will stop working.
For example, if a user created a metrics-specific alert
without having access to the Observability Metrics application, the alert will stop.
To resume the alert, a user with the correct access must access and save them.

[role="screenshot"]
image::user/images/kibana-privileges.png[Kibana privileges]

The *Alerts and Actions*  management views now includes alert statuses that provide
immediate feedback on whether an alert is active (the alerting condition is met),
inactive, or there is an error. The information about
the errors can help you troubleshoot.

[role="screenshot"]
image::user/images/alerts-and-actions.png[Alerts and Actions UI]

[float]
[[hiding-management]]
=== Hide management based on privileges

*Stack Management* is home to an ever-growing suite of administrative
tools to help manage your stack. These tools have historically been visible to
all users, even if they weren’t authorized to take advantage of them. Now,
*Stack Management* only shows the features that users are authorized to use,
based on their assigned {ref}/security-privileges.html[cluster and index privileges].
If a user isn’t authorized
to see any of the *Stack Management* features, then the entire
*Stack Management* is hidden.

This highly-requested feature allows administrators to use {kibana-ref}/kibana-privileges.html#kibana-feature-privileges[feature privileges]
instead of the deprecated Dashboard-only mode,
which will be removed in 8.0. We also updated
{kibana-ref}/management.html[our documentation] to make
sure the set of required cluster and index privileges are clearly defined
for each *Stack Management* feature.

[float]
[[copy-and-import-objects]]
=== Copy and import of saved objects

While laying the groundwork for sharing saved objects in multiple spaces,
we overhauled the UI for copying and importing saved objects.
When copying saved objects, you can now create objects, easily resolve conflicts,
and get information on subtotals, object icons, and object titles.
After importing saved objects, you’ll see a summary of what objects were created.

[role="screenshot"]
image::user/images/copy-import-objects.png[Copy to space UI]



[float]
=== Data frame analytics model management

Enhancing the functionality for data frame analytics supervised learning,
you can manage the trained models under **Machine Learning**. The new tab lists
basic information on each model, with more detailed information displayed on
row expansion, including the inference and job configuration and stats. It also
contains a list of which ingest pipelines make use of each model.
Additional controls allow you to search and delete models, and to view the training
data used to create each model.

[role="screenshot"]
image::user/images/data-frame-analytics.png[Data frame analytics]

[float]
=== Per-partition categorization in {anomaly-detect}

Categorization tokenizes a text field, clusters similar data together,
classifies it into categories, and then detects anomalous categories in the data.
Starting in 7.9, per-partition categorization enabled you to do categorization separately
for every value of a partition field. With 7.10, it's now possible to configure per-partition
categorization.

[float]
=== Improved {feat-imp} details for {dfanalytics}

When you examine the results from your {classification} or {regression} {ml} jobs,
you can use {feat-imp} to understand which fields had the biggest impact
on each prediction. In 7.10, you can see the average magnitude of the {feat-imp}
values for each field across all the training data. You can also examine the feature importance values for each individual
prediction in the format of JSON objects or decision plots.



[role="screenshot"]
image::user/images/feature-importance.png[Feature importance]


// end::notable-highlights[]

[float]
=== Give {minor-version} a try

Try {minor-version} now by deploying {es} and {kib} on
https://www.elastic.co/cloud/elasticsearch-service/signup[Elastic Cloud] or
by https://www.elastic.co/start[downloading them].
Let us know what you think on Twitter https://twitter.com/elastic[(@elastic)]
or in our https://discuss.elastic.co/c/elasticsearch[forum].

Commit message:

[DOCS] minor edits to what's new

docs/user/whats-new.asciidoc, after:

[[whats-new]]
== What's new in {minor-version}

++++
<titleabbrev>What's new in {minor-version}</titleabbrev>
++++

coming[7.10.0]

Here are the highlights of what's new and improved in {minor-version}.
For detailed information about this release,
check out the {kibana-ref-all}/7.10/release-notes.html[release notes] and
{kibana-ref-all}/7.10/breaking-changes.html[breaking changes].

Other versions: {kibana-ref-all}/7.9/whats-new.html[7.9] | {kibana-ref-all}/7.8/whats-new.html[7.8] | {kibana-ref-all}/7.7/release-highlights-7.7.0.html[7.7] |
{kibana-ref-all}/7.6/release-highlights-7.6.0.html[7.6] | {kibana-ref-all}/7.5/release-highlights-7.5.0.html[7.5] |
{kibana-ref-all}/7.4/release-highlights-7.4.0.html[7.4] | {kibana-ref-all}/7.3/release-highlights-7.3.0.html[7.3] | {kibana-ref-all}/7.2/release-highlights-7.2.0.html[7.2]
| {kibana-ref-all}/7.1/release-highlights-7.1.0.html[7.1] | {kibana-ref-all}/7.0/release-highlights-7.0.0.html[7.0]


//NOTE: The notable-highlights tagged regions are re-used in the
//Installation and Upgrade Guide

// tag::notable-highlights[]

[float]
[[new-home-and-landing-page]]
=== New home and landing page

With so many exciting additions to {kib}, it can be challenging to choose a
path forward. As a result, we have a renewed focus on the initial user experience,
beginning with a new home page.
The new version focuses on core solutions and use cases.

[role="screenshot"]
image::user/images/new-home-page.png[New home and landing page]

Extending from the home page, you're now guided toward solution-focused
landing pages that assist in adding data and introducing underlying capabilities.
These new pages help users, both new and experienced, get started with all that {kib} has to offer.


[role="screenshot"]
image::user/images/landing-page.png[Solution-focused landing page]

[float]
[[stack-header-and-navigational-search]]
=== Global header with navigational search

In 7.8, we introduced a new and improved main menu as part of our
quest for the optimal navigation design.
In 7.10, we reveal more of the picture, with the
addition of a global header that includes a
navigational search.
Using a keyboard shortcut (Ctrl+/ on Windows and Linux, Command+/ on MacOS),
you can now jump between applications and saved objects,
including dashboards, visualizations, workpads, saved searches, and more.

[role="screenshot"]
image::user/images/navigational-search.png[New home and landing page]

[float]
[[lens-generally-available]]
=== Lens is generally available

To further our commitment to the ongoing journey of making {kib} an incredible
visual data analytics experience for everyone, regardless of technical background, we've made
*Lens* generally available. Now users whose companies limit the use of
beta software or services in production can leverage the visualization and analytics
capabilities that *Lens* provides.

*Lens* also introduces two new chart types.
Depending on the type of data you are visualizing, *Lens* can now build
percentage bar charts and percentage area charts.

[role="screenshot"]
image::user/images/lens-whats-new.png[Percentage bar chart in Lens]

For more information, refer to the {kibana-ref}/dashboard.html#lens[documentation].

[float]
[[drilldowns-to-urls]]
=== Drilldown to URL

beta[] In 7.8, we introduced a dashboard-to-dashboard drilldown that lets you quickly create
custom navigation paths between dashboards, carrying over the filter and
time context. Now you can also create a navigation path from a dashboard to an internal or external
URL.
This functionality is available with a https://www.elastic.co/subscriptions[Gold subscription] or higher.
For more information, refer to the {kibana-ref}/url-drilldown.html[URL drilldown documentation].

[role="screenshot"]
image::user/images/drilldown-to-url.png[Drilldown to Url on dashboard panel]

[float]
[[maps-enhancements]]
=== New ways to act on geospatial data

Maps and dashboards now work better together.
First, you can use maps with {kibana-ref}/dashboard-drilldown.html[dashboard drilldowns].
Second, when authoring a dashboard, you can create a map, save the map,
and then return to the dashboard in your workflow.

*Maps* also has new ways to work with your data.  You can now automatically
fit “data to bounds,” keeping your data at the center of attention.
It’s also easier to work with your data if it’s coming from a CSV file. Using the
*File Data Visualizer* in *Machine Learning*, if you import a CSV file with latitude and longitude fields,
the fields are automatically converted to a `geo_point` field.

[role="screenshot"]
image::user/images/maps-new.png[File upload of a CSV file with latitude and longitude fields]

**Maps** has a new tracking alert experimental[] for monitoring the location of
entities in relation to area of interest boundaries. Also, the new vector
tile rendering enables you to work with more data at faster speeds.

[float]
[[vega-generally-available]]
=== Vega is generally available

*Vega*, an advanced editor you use to create custom panels in dashboards, is production ready.
Now users whose companies limit the use of beta software or services in production can
leverage the full visualization customization capabilities that *Vega* provides.

[role="screenshot"]
image::user/images/vega-new.png[Percentage bar chart in Lens]

For information about *Vega*, refer to the {kibana-ref}/dashboard.html#vega[documentation].

[float]
[[alerts-new-connectors]]
=== New connectors for alerts

In 7.10, we extended our offering of connectors
by adding the {kibana-ref}/jira-action-type.html[Jira] and
{kibana-ref}/resilient-action-type.html[IBM Resilient] connectors for
use with all alert types. Also,
you can now test if a connector works before using
it with your alerts, so you won't lose notifications due to setup errors.

[role="screenshot"]
image::user/images/edit-connector.png[Connector test3]

[float]
[[alerts-rbac]]
=== Role-based access control in Alerts and Actions

**Alerts and Actions** now has role-based access control, so
you can secure alerts based on your organization’s access model. Each
Elastic solution determines access to its own alert types, and users
without access to a solution, will not be able to access its alerts.

A feature control for stack alerts is now included in the
*Role* definition page. This currently
includes the index threshold alert type, with more stack alerts to follow in future releases.
The `all` privilege to stack alerts gives users the
ability to create and edit alerts, and the
`read` privilege allows users to view the alerts.

There's also a new feature control for actions and connectors.
The `all` privilege enables users to
create and edit connectors, and the
the `read` privileges allows users to view connectors and attach actions to alerts.

NOTE: If you upgrade from a previous version,
any alerts created by a user who does not have access to the
alert types applied in the 7.10 RBAC model, will stop working.
For example, if a user created a metrics-specific alert
without having access to the **Observability Metrics** application, the alert will stop.
To resume the alert, a user with the correct access must access and save them.

[role="screenshot"]
image::user/images/kibana-privileges.png[Kibana privileges]

The *Alerts and Actions*  management views now includes alert statuses that provide
immediate feedback on whether an alert is active (the alerting condition is met),
inactive, or if there is an error and how you can troubleshoot it.

[role="screenshot"]
image::user/images/alerts-and-actions.png[Alerts and Actions UI]

[float]
[[hiding-management]]
=== Hide management based on privileges

*Stack Management* is home to an ever-growing suite of administrative
tools to help manage your stack. These tools have historically been visible to
all users, even if they weren’t authorized to take advantage of them. Now,
*Stack Management* only shows the features that users are authorized to use,
based on their assigned {ref}/security-privileges.html[cluster and index privileges].
If a user isn’t authorized
to see any of the *Stack Management* features, then the entire
*Stack Management* is hidden.

This highly-requested feature allows administrators to use {kibana-ref}/kibana-privileges.html#kibana-feature-privileges[feature privileges]
instead of the deprecated Dashboard-only mode,
which will be removed in 8.0. We also updated
{kibana-ref}/management.html[our documentation] to make
sure the set of required cluster and index privileges are clearly defined
for each *Stack Management* feature.

[float]
[[copy-and-import-objects]]
=== Copy and import of saved objects

While laying the groundwork for sharing saved objects in multiple spaces,
we overhauled the UI for copying and importing saved objects.
When copying saved objects, you can now create objects, easily resolve conflicts,
and get information on subtotals, object icons, and object titles.
After importing saved objects, you’ll see a summary of the objects created.

[role="screenshot"]
image::user/images/copy-import-objects.png[Copy to space UI]



[float]
=== Data frame analytics model management

Enhancing the functionality for data frame analytics supervised learning,
you can manage the trained models under **Machine Learning**. The new tab lists
basic information on each model, with more detailed information displayed on
row expansion, including the inference and job configuration and stats. It also
contains a list of which ingest pipelines make use of each model.
Additional controls allow you to search and delete models, and to view the training
data used to create each model.

[role="screenshot"]
image::user/images/data-frame-analytics.png[Data frame analytics]

[float]
=== Per-partition categorization in {anomaly-detect}

Categorization tokenizes a text field, clusters similar data together,
classifies it into categories, and then detects anomalous categories in the data.
Starting in 7.9, per-partition categorization enabled you to do categorization separately
for every value of a partition field. With 7.10, it's now possible to configure per-partition
categorization.

[float]
=== Improved {feat-imp} details for {dfanalytics}

When you examine the results from your {classification} or {regression} {ml} jobs,
you can use {feat-imp} to understand which fields had the biggest impact
on each prediction. In 7.10, you can see the average magnitude of the {feat-imp}
values for each field across all the training data. You can also examine the feature importance values for each individual
prediction in the format of JSON objects or decision plots.



[role="screenshot"]
image::user/images/feature-importance.png[Feature importance]


// end::notable-highlights[]
