x-pack/plugins/observability_solution/dataset_quality/README.md, before:

# Dataset Quality

In order to make ongoing maintenance of log collection easy we want to introduce the concept of dataset quality, where users can easily get an overview on the datasets they have with information such as integration, size, last activity, among others.

## Development

### Unit Tests

Kibana primarily uses Jest for unit testing. Each plugin or package defines a `jest.config.js` that extends a preset provided by the `@kbn/test` package. The following command runs all Dataset quality unit tests:

```
yarn jest --config x-pack/plugins/observability_solution/dataset_quality/jest.config.js
```

You can also run a specific test by passing the filepath as an argument, e.g.:

```
yarn jest --config x-pack/plugins/observability_solution/dataset_quality/jest.config.js x-pack/plugins/observability_solution/dataset_quality/server/routes/data_streams/get_data_streams/get_data_streams.test.ts
```

#### API integration tests

| Option       | Description                                     |
| ------------ | ----------------------------------------------- |
| --server     | Only start ES and Kibana                        |
| --runner     | Only run tests                                  |
| --grep       | Specify the specs to run                        |
| --grep-files | Specify the files to run                        |
| --inspect    | Add --inspect-brk flag to the ftr for debugging |
| --times      | Repeat the test n number of times               |

The API tests are located in [`x-pack/test/dataset_quality_api_integration/`](/x-pack/test/dataset_quality_api_integration/).

#### Start server and run test (single process)

```
node x-pack/plugins/observability_solution/dataset_quality/scripts/api [--help]
```

The above command will start an ES instance on http://localhost:9220, a Kibana instance on http://localhost:5620 and run the api tests.
Once the tests finish, the instances will be terminated.

#### Start server and run test (separate processes)

```sh
# start server
node x-pack/plugins/observability_solution/dataset_quality/scripts/api --server

# run tests
node x-pack/plugins/observability_solution/dataset_quality/scripts/api --runner --grep-files=error_group_list
```


### Functional Tests

### Stateful
#### FTR Server
```
yarn test:ftr:server --config ./x-pack/test/functional/apps/dataset_quality/config.ts
```

#### FTR Runner
```
yarn test:ftr:runner --config ./x-pack/test/functional/apps/dataset_quality/config.ts --include ./x-pack/test/functional/apps/dataset_quality/index.ts
```

#### Running Individual Tests
```
yarn test:ftr:runner --config ./x-pack/test/functional/apps/dataset_quality/config.ts --include ./x-pack/test/functional/apps/dataset_quality/$1
```

### Serverless

#### Server
```
yarn test:ftr:server --config ./x-pack/test_serverless/functional/test_suites/observability/config.ts
```

#### Runner
```
yarn test:ftr:runner --config ./x-pack/test_serverless/functional/test_suites/observability/config.ts --include ./x-pack/test_serverless/functional/test_suites/observability/dataset_quality/index.ts
```
#### Running Individual Tests
```
yarn test:ftr:runner --config ./x-pack/test_serverless/functional/test_suites/observability/config.ts --include ./x-pack/test_serverless/functional/test_suites/observability/dataset_quality/$1
```

Commit message:

[Dataset quality] Change Dataset Quality app's title and add description. (#184728)
The PR changes the app's title from "Datasets" to "Data Set Quality".
Note that the changed title "Data Set Quality" will also be used as a
side nav menu item under Stack Management (in followups). The PR also
adds an app description as suggested in the parent issue.


![image](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/assets/2748376/1d882f38-d062-40bc-b03f-717f9454b0cf)

The link leads to Doc's ECS page: [Data Stream
Fields](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/ecs/current/ecs-data_stream.html).

The PR also changes the breadcrumb and quick search entry to use "Data
Set Quality" instead of "Data quality" or "Logs data quality".


![image](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/assets/2748376/10d53c25-e3bd-489c-8a4d-a93153eb5499)

As per the [writing style
guidelines](https://brand.elastic.co/302f66895/p/194a3b-writing-style-guide/t/889c93),
any instance of "Dataest" is changed to either "Data Set" or "Data set".

x-pack/plugins/observability_solution/dataset_quality/README.md, after:

# Data Set Quality

In order to make ongoing maintenance of log collection easy we want to introduce the concept of data set quality, where users can easily get an overview on the data sets they have with information such as integration, size, last activity, among others.

## Development

### Unit Tests

Kibana primarily uses Jest for unit testing. Each plugin or package defines a `jest.config.js` that extends a preset provided by the `@kbn/test` package. The following command runs all Data Set Quality unit tests:

```
yarn jest --config x-pack/plugins/observability_solution/dataset_quality/jest.config.js
```

You can also run a specific test by passing the filepath as an argument, e.g.:

```
yarn jest --config x-pack/plugins/observability_solution/dataset_quality/jest.config.js x-pack/plugins/observability_solution/dataset_quality/server/routes/data_streams/get_data_streams/get_data_streams.test.ts
```

#### API integration tests

| Option       | Description                                     |
| ------------ | ----------------------------------------------- |
| --server     | Only start ES and Kibana                        |
| --runner     | Only run tests                                  |
| --grep       | Specify the specs to run                        |
| --grep-files | Specify the files to run                        |
| --inspect    | Add --inspect-brk flag to the ftr for debugging |
| --times      | Repeat the test n number of times               |

The API tests are located in [`x-pack/test/dataset_quality_api_integration/`](/x-pack/test/dataset_quality_api_integration/).

#### Start server and run test (single process)

```
node x-pack/plugins/observability_solution/dataset_quality/scripts/api [--help]
```

The above command will start an ES instance on http://localhost:9220, a Kibana instance on http://localhost:5620 and run the api tests.
Once the tests finish, the instances will be terminated.

#### Start server and run test (separate processes)

```sh
# start server
node x-pack/plugins/observability_solution/dataset_quality/scripts/api --server

# run tests
node x-pack/plugins/observability_solution/dataset_quality/scripts/api --runner --grep-files=error_group_list
```


### Functional Tests

### Stateful
#### FTR Server
```
yarn test:ftr:server --config ./x-pack/test/functional/apps/dataset_quality/config.ts
```

#### FTR Runner
```
yarn test:ftr:runner --config ./x-pack/test/functional/apps/dataset_quality/config.ts --include ./x-pack/test/functional/apps/dataset_quality/index.ts
```

#### Running Individual Tests
```
yarn test:ftr:runner --config ./x-pack/test/functional/apps/dataset_quality/config.ts --include ./x-pack/test/functional/apps/dataset_quality/$1
```

### Serverless

#### Server
```
yarn test:ftr:server --config ./x-pack/test_serverless/functional/test_suites/observability/config.ts
```

#### Runner
```
yarn test:ftr:runner --config ./x-pack/test_serverless/functional/test_suites/observability/config.ts --include ./x-pack/test_serverless/functional/test_suites/observability/dataset_quality/index.ts
```
#### Running Individual Tests
```
yarn test:ftr:runner --config ./x-pack/test_serverless/functional/test_suites/observability/config.ts --include ./x-pack/test_serverless/functional/test_suites/observability/dataset_quality/$1
```
