docs/developer/best-practices/typescript.asciidoc, before:

[[typescript]]
== Typescript

Although this is not a requirement, we encourage if all new code is developed in https://www.typescriptlang.org/[Typescript].

[discrete]
=== Project references
Kibana has crossed the 2m LoC mark. The current situation creates some scaling problems when the default out-of-the-box setup stops working. As a result, developers suffer from slow project compilation and IDE unresponsiveness. As a part of https://github.com/elastic/kibana/projects/63[Developer Experience project], we are migrating our tooling to use built-in TypeScript features addressing the scaling problems - https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/project-references.html[project references] & https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/release-notes/typescript-3-4.html#faster-subsequent-builds-with-the---incremental-flag[incremental builds]

In a nutshell - instead of compiling the whole Kibana codebase at once, this setup enforces splitting the code base into independent projects that form a directed acyclic graph (DAG). This allows the TypeScript compiler (`tsc`) to apply several advanced optimizations:

- Every project emits `public` interfaces in the form of `d.ts` type declarations generated by the TypeScript compiler
- These generated `d.ts` type declarations are used whenever a referenced project is imported in a depending project
- This makes it possible to determine which project needs rebuilding when the source code has changed to use a more aggressive caching strategy.

More details are available in the https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/project-references.html[official docs]

[discrete]
==== Caveats
This architecture imposes several limitations to which we must comply:

- Projects cannot have circular dependencies. Even though the Kibana platform doesn't support circular dependencies between Kibana plugins, TypeScript (and ES6 modules) does allow circular imports between files. So in theory, you may face a problem when migrating to the TS project references and you will have to resolve this circular dependency. The tool we've built on https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/82867 can be used to find such problems. Please read the prerequisites section below to know how to use it.
- A project must emit its type declaration. It's not always possible to generate a type declaration if the compiler cannot infer a type. There are two basic cases:

1. Your plugin exports a type inferring an internal type declared in Kibana codebase. In this case, you'll have to either export an internal type or to declare an exported type explicitly.
2. Your plugin exports something inferring a type from a 3rd party library that doesn't export this type. To fix the problem, you have to declare the exported type manually.

[discrete]
==== Prerequisites
Since project refs rely on generated `d.ts` files, the migration order does matter. You can migrate your plugin only when all the plugin dependencies already have migrated. It creates a situation where commonly used plugins (such as `data` or `kibana_react`) have to migrate first.
Run `node scripts/find_plugins_without_ts_refs.js --id your_plugin_id` to get a list of plugins that should be switched to TS project refs to unblock your plugin migration.

Additionally in order to migrate into project refs you also need to make sure your plugin doesn't have circular dependencies with other plugins. Our CI should catch such problems but if you want to check it locally you can run `node scripts/find_plugins_with_circular_deps` which will output a list of the problems. In case you need more information to solve the problems you can run it with the `--debug` flag which will print the complete paths for the circular imports.

[discrete]
==== Implementation
- Make sure all the plugins listed as dependencies in *requiredPlugins*, *optionalPlugins* & *requiredBundles* properties of `kibana.json` manifest file have migrated to TS project references.
- Add `tsconfig.json` in the root folder of your plugin.
[source,json]
----
{
  "extends": "../../../tsconfig.base.json",
  "compilerOptions": {
    "composite": true,
    "outDir": "./target/types",
    "emitDeclarationOnly": true,
    "declaration": true,
    "declarationMap": true
  },
  "include": [
    // add all the folders containg files to be compiled
  ],
  "references": [
    { "path": "../../core/tsconfig.json" },
    // add references to other TypeScript projects your plugin dependes on
  ]
}
----
If your plugin imports a file not listed in `include`, the build will fail with the next message `File ‘…’ is not listed within the file list of project …’. Projects must list all files or use an 'include' pattern.`

- Build you plugin `./node_modules/.bin/tsc -b src/plugins/my_plugin`. Fix errors if `tsc` cannot generate type declarations for your project.
- Add your project reference to `references` property of `tsconfig.refs.json`
- Add your plugin to `references` property and plugin folder to `exclude` property of the `tsconfig.json` it used to belong to (for example, for `src/plugins/**` it's `tsconfig.json`; for `x-pack/plugins/**` it’s `x-pack/tsconfig.json`).
- List the reference to your newly created project in all the Kibana `tsconfig.json` files that could import your project: `tsconfig.json`, `test/tsconfig.json`, `x-pack/tsconfig.json`, `x-pack/test/tsconfig.json`. And in all the plugin-specific `tsconfig.refs.json` for dependent plugins.
- You can measure how your changes affect `tsc` compiler performance with `node --max-old-space-size=4096 ./node_modules/.bin/tsc -p tsconfig.json --extendedDiagnostics --noEmit`. Compare with `master` branch.

You can use https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/79446 as an example.

Commit message:

chore(NA): update debug logs to always output allowedList

docs/developer/best-practices/typescript.asciidoc, after:

[[typescript]]
== Typescript

Although this is not a requirement, we encourage if all new code is developed in https://www.typescriptlang.org/[Typescript].

[discrete]
=== Project references
Kibana has crossed the 2m LoC mark. The current situation creates some scaling problems when the default out-of-the-box setup stops working. As a result, developers suffer from slow project compilation and IDE unresponsiveness. As a part of https://github.com/elastic/kibana/projects/63[Developer Experience project], we are migrating our tooling to use built-in TypeScript features addressing the scaling problems - https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/project-references.html[project references] & https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/release-notes/typescript-3-4.html#faster-subsequent-builds-with-the---incremental-flag[incremental builds]

In a nutshell - instead of compiling the whole Kibana codebase at once, this setup enforces splitting the code base into independent projects that form a directed acyclic graph (DAG). This allows the TypeScript compiler (`tsc`) to apply several advanced optimizations:

- Every project emits `public` interfaces in the form of `d.ts` type declarations generated by the TypeScript compiler
- These generated `d.ts` type declarations are used whenever a referenced project is imported in a depending project
- This makes it possible to determine which project needs rebuilding when the source code has changed to use a more aggressive caching strategy.

More details are available in the https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/project-references.html[official docs]

[discrete]
==== Caveats
This architecture imposes several limitations to which we must comply:

- Projects cannot have circular dependencies. Even though the Kibana platform doesn't support circular dependencies between Kibana plugins, TypeScript (and ES6 modules) does allow circular imports between files. So in theory, you may face a problem when migrating to the TS project references and you will have to resolve this circular dependency. We've built a tool that can be used to find such problems. Please read the prerequisites section below to know how to use it.
- A project must emit its type declaration. It's not always possible to generate a type declaration if the compiler cannot infer a type. There are two basic cases:

1. Your plugin exports a type inferring an internal type declared in Kibana codebase. In this case, you'll have to either export an internal type or to declare an exported type explicitly.
2. Your plugin exports something inferring a type from a 3rd party library that doesn't export this type. To fix the problem, you have to declare the exported type manually.

[discrete]
==== Prerequisites
Since project refs rely on generated `d.ts` files, the migration order does matter. You can migrate your plugin only when all the plugin dependencies already have migrated. It creates a situation where commonly used plugins (such as `data` or `kibana_react`) have to migrate first.
Run `node scripts/find_plugins_without_ts_refs.js --id your_plugin_id` to get a list of plugins that should be switched to TS project refs to unblock your plugin migration.

Additionally, in order to migrate into project refs, you also need to make sure your plugin doesn't have circular dependencies with other plugins. We run a job in the CI for each PR trying to find if new circular dependencies are being added which runs our tool with `node scripts/find_plugins_with_circular_deps`. However there are also a couple of circular dependencies already identified and that are in an allowed list to be solved. You also need to make sure your plugin don't rely in any other plugin into that allowed list. For a complete overview of the circular dependencies both found and in the allowed list as well as the complete circular dependencies path please run the following script locally with the debug flag `node scripts/find_plugins_with_circular_deps --debug` .

[discrete]
==== Implementation
- Make sure all the plugins listed as dependencies in *requiredPlugins*, *optionalPlugins* & *requiredBundles* properties of `kibana.json` manifest file have migrated to TS project references.
- Add `tsconfig.json` in the root folder of your plugin.
[source,json]
----
{
  "extends": "../../../tsconfig.base.json",
  "compilerOptions": {
    "composite": true,
    "outDir": "./target/types",
    "emitDeclarationOnly": true,
    "declaration": true,
    "declarationMap": true
  },
  "include": [
    // add all the folders containg files to be compiled
  ],
  "references": [
    { "path": "../../core/tsconfig.json" },
    // add references to other TypeScript projects your plugin dependes on
  ]
}
----
If your plugin imports a file not listed in `include`, the build will fail with the next message `File ‘…’ is not listed within the file list of project …’. Projects must list all files or use an 'include' pattern.`

- Build you plugin `./node_modules/.bin/tsc -b src/plugins/my_plugin`. Fix errors if `tsc` cannot generate type declarations for your project.
- Add your project reference to `references` property of `tsconfig.refs.json`
- Add your plugin to `references` property and plugin folder to `exclude` property of the `tsconfig.json` it used to belong to (for example, for `src/plugins/**` it's `tsconfig.json`; for `x-pack/plugins/**` it’s `x-pack/tsconfig.json`).
- List the reference to your newly created project in all the Kibana `tsconfig.json` files that could import your project: `tsconfig.json`, `test/tsconfig.json`, `x-pack/tsconfig.json`, `x-pack/test/tsconfig.json`. And in all the plugin-specific `tsconfig.refs.json` for dependent plugins.
- You can measure how your changes affect `tsc` compiler performance with `node --max-old-space-size=4096 ./node_modules/.bin/tsc -p tsconfig.json --extendedDiagnostics --noEmit`. Compare with `master` branch.

You can use https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/79446 as an example.
