docs/setup/access.asciidoc, before:

[[access]]
== Accessing Kibana

Kibana is a web application that you access through port 5601. All you need to do is point your web browser at the
machine where Kibana is running and specify the port number. For example, `localhost:5601` or
`http://YOURDOMAIN.com:5601`.

When you access Kibana, the <<discover,Discover>> page loads by default with the default index pattern selected. The
time filter is set to the last 15 minutes and the search query is set to match-all (\*).

If you don't see any documents, try setting the time filter to a wider time range.
If you still don't see any results, it's possible that you don't *have* any documents.

[float]
[[status]]
=== Checking Kibana Status

You can reach the Kibana server's status page by navigating to `localhost:5601/status`. The status page displays
information about the server's resource usage and lists the installed plugins.

image::images/kibana-status-page.png[]

NOTE: For JSON-formatted server status details, use the API endpoint at `localhost:5601/api/status`

Commit message:

[DOCS]Clarify that by default server.host only allows local connections (#52802) (#53702)
* [DOCS]Clarify that by default server.host only allows local connections

* Update docs/setup/access.asciidoc

Co-Authored-By: gchaps <33642766+gchaps@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update docs/setup/settings.asciidoc

Co-Authored-By: gchaps <33642766+gchaps@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update docs/setup/settings.asciidoc

Co-Authored-By: gchaps <33642766+gchaps@users.noreply.github.com>

Co-authored-by: gchaps <33642766+gchaps@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/setup/access.asciidoc, after:

[[access]]
== Accessing Kibana

Kibana is a web application that you access through port 5601. All you need to do is point your web browser at the
machine where Kibana is running and specify the port number. For example, `localhost:5601` or `http://YOURDOMAIN.com:5601`.
If you want to allow remote users to connect, set the parameter `server.host` in `kibana.yml` to a non-loopback address.

When you access Kibana, the <<discover,Discover>> page loads by default with the default index pattern selected. The
time filter is set to the last 15 minutes and the search query is set to match-all (\*).

If you don't see any documents, try setting the time filter to a wider time range.
If you still don't see any results, it's possible that you don't *have* any documents.

[float]
[[status]]
=== Checking Kibana Status

You can reach the Kibana server's status page by navigating to the status endpoint, for example, `localhost:5601/status`. The status page displays
information about the server's resource usage and lists the installed plugins.

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/kibana-status-page-7_5_0.png[]

NOTE: For JSON-formatted server status details, use the API endpoint at `localhost:5601/api/status`
