docs/setup/docker.asciidoc, before:

[[docker]]
=== Install {kib} with Docker
++++
<titleabbrev>Install with Docker</titleabbrev>
++++

Docker images for {kib} are available from the Elastic Docker registry. The
base image is https://hub.docker.com/_/ubuntu[ubuntu:20.04].

A list of all published Docker images and tags is available at
https://www.docker.elastic.co[www.docker.elastic.co]. The source code is in
https://github.com/elastic/dockerfiles/tree/{branch}/kibana[GitHub].

These images contain both free and subscription features.
<<managing-licenses,Start a 30-day trial>> to try out all of the features.

[discrete]
[[run-kibana-on-docker-for-dev]]
=== Run {kib} on Docker for development

. Start an {es} container for development or testing:
+
--
ifeval::["{release-state}"=="unreleased"]

NOTE: No Docker images are currently available for {kib} {version}.

endif::[]

ifeval::["{release-state}"!="unreleased"]

[source,sh,subs="attributes"]
----
docker network create elastic
docker pull {es-docker-image}
docker run --name es-node01 --net elastic -p 9200:9200 -p 9300:9300 -t {es-docker-image}
----

endif::[]

--
+
When you start {es} for the first time, the following security configuration 
occurs automatically:
+
* {ref}/configuring-stack-security.html#stack-security-certificates[Certificates and keys] 
are generated for the transport and HTTP layers.
* The Transport Layer Security (TLS) configuration settings are written to
`elasticsearch.yml`.
* A password is generated for the `elastic` user.
* An enrollment token is generated for {kib}.
+
NOTE: You might need to scroll back a bit in the terminal to view the password 
and enrollment token.

. Copy the generated password and enrollment token and save them in a secure 
location. These values are shown only when you start {es} for the first time.
You'll use these to enroll {kib} with your {es} cluster and log in.

. In a new terminal session, start {kib} and connect it to your {es} container:
+
--
ifeval::["{release-state}"=="unreleased"]

NOTE: No Docker images are currently available for {kib} {version}.

endif::[]

ifeval::["{release-state}"!="unreleased"]

[source,sh,subs="attributes"]
----
docker pull {docker-image}
docker run --name kib-01 --net elastic -p 5601:5601 {docker-image}
----

endif::[]
--
+
When you start {kib}, a unique link is output to your terminal.

. To access {kib}, click the generated link in your terminal.

  .. In your browser, paste the enrollment token that you copied when starting
  {es} and click the button to connect your {kib} instance with {es}.

  .. Log in to {kib} as the `elastic` user with the password that was generated
  when you started {es}.

[[docker-generate]]
[discrete]
=== Generate passwords and enrollment tokens
If you need to reset the password for the `elastic` user or other
built-in users, run the {ref}/reset-password.html[`elasticsearch-reset-password`]
tool. This tool is available in the {es} `bin` directory of the Docker container.

For example, to reset the password for the `elastic` user:

[source,sh]
----
docker exec -it es-node01 /usr/share/elasticsearch/bin/elasticsearch-reset-password -u elastic
----

If you need to generate new enrollment tokens for {kib} or {es} nodes, run the
{ref}/create-enrollment-token.html[`elasticsearch-create-enrollment-token`] tool.
This tool is available in the {es} `bin` directory of the Docker container.

For example, to generate a new enrollment token for {kib}:

[source,sh]
----
docker exec -it es-node01 /usr/share/elasticsearch/bin/elasticsearch-create-enrollment-token -s kibana
----

[discrete]
=== Remove Docker containers

To remove the containers and their network, run:

[source,sh]
----
docker network rm elastic
docker rm es-node01
docker rm kib-01
----

[discrete]
[[configuring-kibana-docker]]
=== Configure {kib} on Docker

The Docker images provide several methods for configuring {kib}. The
conventional approach is to provide a `kibana.yml` file as described in
{kibana-ref}/settings.html[Configuring Kibana], but it's also possible to use
environment variables to define settings.

[discrete]
[[bind-mount-config]]
==== Bind-mounted configuration

One way to configure {kib} on Docker is to provide `kibana.yml` via bind-mounting.
With `docker-compose`, the bind-mount can be specified like this:

["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
--------------------------------------------
version: '2'
services:
  kibana:
    image: {docker-image}
    volumes:
      - ./kibana.yml:/usr/share/kibana/config/kibana.yml
--------------------------------------------

==== Persist the {kib} keystore

By default, {kib} auto-generates a keystore file for secure settings at startup. To persist your {kibana-ref}/secure-settings.html[secure settings], use the `kibana-keystore` utility to bind-mount the parent directory of the keystore to the container. For example:

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
----
docker run -it --rm -v full_path_to/config:/usr/share/kibana/config -v full_path_to/data:/usr/share/kibana/data {docker-image} bin/kibana-keystore create
docker run -it --rm -v full_path_to/config:/usr/share/kibana/config -v full_path_to/data:/usr/share/kibana/data {docker-image} bin/kibana-keystore add test_keystore_setting
----

[discrete]
[[environment-variable-config]]
==== Environment variable configuration

Under Docker, {kib} can be configured via environment variables. When
the container starts, a helper process checks the environment for variables that
can be mapped to Kibana command-line arguments.

For compatibility with container orchestration systems, these
environment variables are written in all capitals, with underscores as
word separators. The helper translates these names to valid
{kib} setting names.

WARNING: All information that you include in environment variables is visible through the `ps` command, including sensitive information.

Some example translations are shown here:

.Example Docker Environment Variables
[horizontal]
**Environment Variable**:: **Kibana Setting**
`SERVER_NAME`:: `server.name`
`SERVER_BASEPATH`:: `server.basePath`
`ELASTICSEARCH_HOSTS`:: `elasticsearch.hosts`

In general, any setting listed in <<settings>> can be configured with this technique.

Supplying array options can be tricky. The following example shows the syntax for providing an array to `ELASTICSEARCH_HOSTS`.

These variables can be set with +docker-compose+ like this:

["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
----------------------------------------------------------
version: '2'
services:
  kibana:
    image: {docker-image}
    environment:
      SERVER_NAME: kibana.example.org
      ELASTICSEARCH_HOSTS: '["http://es01:9200","http://es02:9200","http://es03:9200"]'
----------------------------------------------------------

Since environment variables are translated to CLI arguments, they take
precedence over settings configured in `kibana.yml`.

[discrete]
[[docker-defaults]]
==== Docker defaults
The following settings have different default values when using the Docker
images:

[horizontal]
`server.host`:: `"0.0.0.0"`
`server.shutdownTimeout`:: `"5s"`
`elasticsearch.hosts`:: `http://elasticsearch:9200`
`monitoring.ui.container.elasticsearch.enabled`:: `true`

These settings are defined in the default `kibana.yml`. They can be overridden
with a <<bind-mount-config,custom `kibana.yml`>> or via
<<environment-variable-config,environment variables>>.

IMPORTANT: If replacing `kibana.yml` with a custom version, be sure to copy the
defaults to the custom file if you want to retain them. If not, they will
be "masked" by the new file.

Commit message:

[Docs] Make it more clear when to use EVN variables vs bind mount for settings (#127889)
Using ENV variables is only supported for some settings (mainly the ones listed in https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/kibana/8.1/settings.html), but it keeps causing confusion as to why some other settings do not work when configured via ENV. 
Added a note to recommend to use bind mounts for `kibana.yml` as this is the recommended way.

Co-authored-by: Kibana Machine <42973632+kibanamachine@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/setup/docker.asciidoc, after:

[[docker]]
=== Install {kib} with Docker
++++
<titleabbrev>Install with Docker</titleabbrev>
++++

Docker images for {kib} are available from the Elastic Docker registry. The
base image is https://hub.docker.com/_/ubuntu[ubuntu:20.04].

A list of all published Docker images and tags is available at
https://www.docker.elastic.co[www.docker.elastic.co]. The source code is in
https://github.com/elastic/dockerfiles/tree/{branch}/kibana[GitHub].

These images contain both free and subscription features.
<<managing-licenses,Start a 30-day trial>> to try out all of the features.

[discrete]
[[run-kibana-on-docker-for-dev]]
=== Run {kib} on Docker for development

. Start an {es} container for development or testing:
+
--
ifeval::["{release-state}"=="unreleased"]

NOTE: No Docker images are currently available for {kib} {version}.

endif::[]

ifeval::["{release-state}"!="unreleased"]

[source,sh,subs="attributes"]
----
docker network create elastic
docker pull {es-docker-image}
docker run --name es-node01 --net elastic -p 9200:9200 -p 9300:9300 -t {es-docker-image}
----

endif::[]

--
+
When you start {es} for the first time, the following security configuration 
occurs automatically:
+
* {ref}/configuring-stack-security.html#stack-security-certificates[Certificates and keys] 
are generated for the transport and HTTP layers.
* The Transport Layer Security (TLS) configuration settings are written to
`elasticsearch.yml`.
* A password is generated for the `elastic` user.
* An enrollment token is generated for {kib}.
+
NOTE: You might need to scroll back a bit in the terminal to view the password 
and enrollment token.

. Copy the generated password and enrollment token and save them in a secure 
location. These values are shown only when you start {es} for the first time.
You'll use these to enroll {kib} with your {es} cluster and log in.

. In a new terminal session, start {kib} and connect it to your {es} container:
+
--
ifeval::["{release-state}"=="unreleased"]

NOTE: No Docker images are currently available for {kib} {version}.

endif::[]

ifeval::["{release-state}"!="unreleased"]

[source,sh,subs="attributes"]
----
docker pull {docker-image}
docker run --name kib-01 --net elastic -p 5601:5601 {docker-image}
----

endif::[]
--
+
When you start {kib}, a unique link is output to your terminal.

. To access {kib}, click the generated link in your terminal.

  .. In your browser, paste the enrollment token that you copied when starting
  {es} and click the button to connect your {kib} instance with {es}.

  .. Log in to {kib} as the `elastic` user with the password that was generated
  when you started {es}.

[[docker-generate]]
[discrete]
=== Generate passwords and enrollment tokens
If you need to reset the password for the `elastic` user or other
built-in users, run the {ref}/reset-password.html[`elasticsearch-reset-password`]
tool. This tool is available in the {es} `bin` directory of the Docker container.

For example, to reset the password for the `elastic` user:

[source,sh]
----
docker exec -it es-node01 /usr/share/elasticsearch/bin/elasticsearch-reset-password -u elastic
----

If you need to generate new enrollment tokens for {kib} or {es} nodes, run the
{ref}/create-enrollment-token.html[`elasticsearch-create-enrollment-token`] tool.
This tool is available in the {es} `bin` directory of the Docker container.

For example, to generate a new enrollment token for {kib}:

[source,sh]
----
docker exec -it es-node01 /usr/share/elasticsearch/bin/elasticsearch-create-enrollment-token -s kibana
----

[discrete]
=== Remove Docker containers

To remove the containers and their network, run:

[source,sh]
----
docker network rm elastic
docker rm es-node01
docker rm kib-01
----

[discrete]
[[configuring-kibana-docker]]
=== Configure {kib} on Docker

The Docker images provide several methods for configuring {kib}. The
conventional approach is to provide a `kibana.yml` file as described in
{kibana-ref}/settings.html[Configuring Kibana], but it's also possible to use
environment variables to define settings.

[discrete]
[[bind-mount-config]]
==== Bind-mounted configuration

One way to configure {kib} on Docker is to provide `kibana.yml` via bind-mounting.
With `docker-compose`, the bind-mount can be specified like this:

["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
--------------------------------------------
version: '2'
services:
  kibana:
    image: {docker-image}
    volumes:
      - ./kibana.yml:/usr/share/kibana/config/kibana.yml
--------------------------------------------

==== Persist the {kib} keystore

By default, {kib} auto-generates a keystore file for secure settings at startup. To persist your {kibana-ref}/secure-settings.html[secure settings], use the `kibana-keystore` utility to bind-mount the parent directory of the keystore to the container. For example:

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
----
docker run -it --rm -v full_path_to/config:/usr/share/kibana/config -v full_path_to/data:/usr/share/kibana/data {docker-image} bin/kibana-keystore create
docker run -it --rm -v full_path_to/config:/usr/share/kibana/config -v full_path_to/data:/usr/share/kibana/data {docker-image} bin/kibana-keystore add test_keystore_setting
----

[discrete]
[[environment-variable-config]]
==== Environment variable configuration

Under Docker, {kib} can be configured via environment variables. When
the container starts, a helper process checks the environment for variables that
can be mapped to Kibana command-line arguments.

For compatibility with container orchestration systems, these
environment variables are written in all capitals, with underscores as
word separators. The helper translates these names to valid
{kib} setting names.

WARNING: All information that you include in environment variables is visible through the `ps` command, including sensitive information.

Some example translations are shown here:

.Example Docker Environment Variables
[horizontal]
**Environment Variable**:: **Kibana Setting**
`SERVER_NAME`:: `server.name`
`SERVER_BASEPATH`:: `server.basePath`
`ELASTICSEARCH_HOSTS`:: `elasticsearch.hosts`

In general, any setting listed in <<settings>> can be configured with this technique. If you are looking to configure settings not listed there, please refer to using <<bind-mount-config,a bind mounted `kibana.yml`>>.

Supplying array options can be tricky. The following example shows the syntax for providing an array to `ELASTICSEARCH_HOSTS`.

These variables can be set with +docker-compose+ like this:

["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
----------------------------------------------------------
version: '2'
services:
  kibana:
    image: {docker-image}
    environment:
      SERVER_NAME: kibana.example.org
      ELASTICSEARCH_HOSTS: '["http://es01:9200","http://es02:9200","http://es03:9200"]'
----------------------------------------------------------

Since environment variables are translated to CLI arguments, they take
precedence over settings configured in `kibana.yml`.

[discrete]
[[docker-defaults]]
==== Docker defaults
The following settings have different default values when using the Docker
images:

[horizontal]
`server.host`:: `"0.0.0.0"`
`server.shutdownTimeout`:: `"5s"`
`elasticsearch.hosts`:: `http://elasticsearch:9200`
`monitoring.ui.container.elasticsearch.enabled`:: `true`

These settings are defined in the default `kibana.yml`. They can be overridden
with a <<bind-mount-config,custom `kibana.yml`>> or via
<<environment-variable-config,environment variables>>.

IMPORTANT: If replacing `kibana.yml` with a custom version, be sure to copy the
defaults to the custom file if you want to retain them. If not, they will
be "masked" by the new file.
