docs/setup/settings.asciidoc, before:

[[settings]]
== Configuring Kibana

The Kibana server reads properties from the `kibana.yml` file on startup. The
location of this file differs depending on how you installed {kib}. For example,
if you installed {kib} from an archive distribution (`.tar.gz` or `.zip`), by
default it is in `$KIBANA_HOME/config`. By default, with package distributions
(Debian or RPM), it is in `/etc/kibana`.

The default settings configure Kibana to run on `localhost:5601`. To change the
host or port number, or connect to Elasticsearch running on a different machine,
you'll need to update your `kibana.yml` file. You can also enable SSL and set a
variety of other options. Finally, environment variables can be injected into
configuration using `${MY_ENV_VAR}` syntax.

.Kibana configuration settings

`console.enabled:`:: *Default: true* Set to false to disable Console. Toggling
this will cause the server to regenerate assets on the next startup, which may
cause a delay before pages start being served.

`cpu.cgroup.path.override:`:: Override for cgroup cpu path when mounted in a
manner that is inconsistent with `/proc/self/cgroup`

`cpuacct.cgroup.path.override:`:: Override for cgroup cpuacct path when mounted
in a manner that is inconsistent with `/proc/self/cgroup`

`csp.rules:`:: A template
https://w3c.github.io/webappsec-csp/[content-security-policy] that disables
certain unnecessary and potentially insecure capabilities in the browser. All
instances of `{nonce}` will be replaced with an automatically generated nonce at
load time. We strongly recommend that you keep the default CSP rules that ship
with Kibana.

`csp.strict:`:: *Default: `false`* Blocks access to Kibana to any browser that
does not enforce even rudimentary CSP rules. In practice, this will disable
support for older, less safe browsers like Internet Explorer. 
See <<csp-strict-mode, Content Security Policy>> for more information.

`csp.warnLegacyBrowsers:`:: *Default: `true`* Shows a warning message after
loading Kibana to any browser that does not enforce even rudimentary CSP rules,
though Kibana is still accessible. This configuration is effectively ignored
when `csp.strict` is enabled.

`elasticsearch.customHeaders:`:: *Default: `{}`* Header names and values to send
to Elasticsearch. Any custom headers cannot be overwritten by client-side
headers, regardless of the `elasticsearch.requestHeadersWhitelist` configuration.

`elasticsearch.hosts:`:: *Default: "http://localhost:9200"* The URLs of the
Elasticsearch instances to use for all your queries. All nodes listed here must
be on the same cluster.

`elasticsearch.logQueries:`:: *Default: `false`* Logs queries sent to
Elasticsearch. Requires `logging.verbose` set to `true`. This is useful for
seeing the query DSL generated by applications that currently do not have an
inspector, for example Timelion and Monitoring.

`elasticsearch.pingTimeout:`::
*Default: the value of the `elasticsearch.requestTimeout` setting* Time in
milliseconds to wait for Elasticsearch to respond to pings.

`elasticsearch.preserveHost:`:: *Default: true* When this setting’s value is
true, Kibana uses the hostname specified in the `server.host` setting. When the
value of this setting is `false`, Kibana uses the hostname of the host that
connects to this Kibana instance.

`elasticsearch.requestHeadersWhitelist:`:: *Default: `[ 'authorization' ]`* List
of Kibana client-side headers to send to Elasticsearch. To send *no* client-side
headers, set this value to [] (an empty list).
Removing the `authorization` header from being whitelisted means that you cannot 
use <<basic-authentication, basic authentication>> in Kibana.

`elasticsearch.requestTimeout:`:: *Default: 30000* Time in milliseconds to wait
for responses from the back end or Elasticsearch. This value must be a positive
integer.

`elasticsearch.shardTimeout:`:: *Default: 30000* Time in milliseconds for
Elasticsearch to wait for responses from shards. Set to 0 to disable.

`elasticsearch.sniffInterval:`:: *Default: false* Time in milliseconds between
requests to check Elasticsearch for an updated list of nodes.

`elasticsearch.sniffOnConnectionFault:`:: *Default: false* Update the list of
Elasticsearch nodes immediately following a connection fault.

`elasticsearch.sniffOnStart:`:: *Default: false* Attempt to find other
Elasticsearch nodes on startup.

`elasticsearch.ssl.alwaysPresentCertificate:`:: *Default: false* Controls
whether to always present the certificate specified by
`elasticsearch.ssl.certificate` when requested. This applies to all requests to
Elasticsearch, including requests that are proxied for end-users. Setting this
to `true` when Elasticsearch is using certificates to authenticate users can
lead to proxied requests for end-users being executed as the identity tied to
the configured certificate.

`elasticsearch.ssl.certificate:` and `elasticsearch.ssl.key:`:: Optional
settings that provide the paths to the PEM-format SSL certificate and key files.
These files are used to verify the identity of Kibana to Elasticsearch and are
required when `xpack.ssl.verification_mode` in Elasticsearch is set to either
`certificate` or `full`.

`elasticsearch.ssl.certificateAuthorities:`:: Optional setting that enables you
to specify a list of paths to the PEM file for the certificate authority for
your Elasticsearch instance.

`elasticsearch.ssl.keyPassphrase:`:: The passphrase that will be used to decrypt
the private key. This value is optional as the key may not be encrypted.

`elasticsearch.ssl.verificationMode:`:: *Default: full* Controls the
verification of certificates presented by Elasticsearch. Valid values are `none`,
`certificate`, and `full`. `full` performs hostname verification, and
`certificate` does not.

`elasticsearch.startupTimeout:`:: *Default: 5000* Time in milliseconds to wait
for Elasticsearch at Kibana startup before retrying.

`elasticsearch.username:` and `elasticsearch.password:`:: If your Elasticsearch
is protected with basic authentication, these settings provide the username and
password that the Kibana server uses to perform maintenance on the Kibana index
at startup. Your Kibana users still need to authenticate with Elasticsearch,
which is proxied through the Kibana server.

`interpreter.enableInVisualize`:: *Default: true* Enables use of interpreter in
Visualize.

`kibana.defaultAppId:`:: *Default: "home"* The default application to load.

`kibana.index:`:: *Default: ".kibana"* Kibana uses an index in Elasticsearch to
store saved searches, visualizations and dashboards. Kibana creates a new index
if the index doesn’t already exist. If you configure a custom index, the name must
be lowercase, and conform to {es} {ref}/indices-create-index.html[index name limitations].
+
When running multiple tenants of {kib} by changing the `kibana.index` in your `kibana.yml`, 
you cannot use the `kibana_user` or `kibana_dashboard_only_user` roles 
to grant access to {kib}. 
You must create custom roles that authorize the user for that specific tenant. 
Although multi-tenant installations are supported, the recommended approach 
to securing access to {kib} segments is to grant users access to specific spaces.


`kibana.autocompleteTimeout:`:: *Default: "1000"* Time in milliseconds to wait
for autocomplete suggestions from Elasticsearch. This value must be a whole number
greater than zero.

`kibana.autocompleteTerminateAfter:`:: *Default: "100000"* Maximum number of
documents loaded by each shard to generate autocomplete suggestions. This value
must be a whole number greater than zero.

`logging.dest:`:: *Default: `stdout`* Enables you specify a file where Kibana
stores log output.

`logging.json:`:: *Default: false* Logs output as JSON. When set to `true`, the
logs will be formatted as JSON strings that include timestamp, log level, context, message
text and any other metadata that may be associated with the log message itself.
If `logging.dest.stdout` is set and there is no interactive terminal ("TTY"), this setting
will default to `true`.

`logging.quiet:`:: *Default: false* Set the value of this setting to `true` to
suppress all logging output other than error messages.

`logging.silent:`:: *Default: false* Set the value of this setting to `true` to
suppress all logging output.

`logging.timezone`:: *Default: UTC* Set to the canonical timezone id
(for example, `America/Los_Angeles`) to log events using that timezone. A list of timezones can
be referenced at https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tz_database_time_zones.

[[logging-verbose]]`logging.verbose:`:: *Default: false* Set the value of this
setting to `true` to log all events, including system usage information and all
requests. Supported on {ece}.

`map.includeElasticMapsService:`:: *Default: true*
Set to false to disable connections to Elastic Maps Service.
When `includeElasticMapsService` is turned off, only the vector layers configured by `map.regionmap`
and the tile layer configured by `map.tilemap.url` will be available in the <<maps, Maps application>>,
<<tilemap, Coordinate map visualizations>>, and <<regionmap, Region map visualizations>>.

`map.proxyElasticMapsServiceInMaps:`:: *Default: false*
Set to true to proxy all <<maps, Maps application>> Elastic Maps Service requests through the Kibana server.
This setting does not impact <<tilemap, Coordinate map visualizations>> and <<regionmap, Region map visualizations>>.

[[regionmap-settings]] `map.regionmap:`:: Specifies additional vector layers for
use in <<regionmap, Region Map>> visualizations. Supported on {ece}. Each layer
object points to an external vector file that contains a geojson
FeatureCollection. The file must use the
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/World_Geodetic_System[WGS84 coordinate reference system]
and only include polygons. If the file is hosted on a separate domain from
Kibana, the server needs to be CORS-enabled so Kibana can download the file. The
following example shows a valid regionmap configuration.
+
--
    map.regionmap:
      includeElasticMapsService: false
      layers:
         - name: "Departments of France"
           url: "http://my.cors.enabled.server.org/france_departements.geojson"
           attribution: "INRAP"
           fields:
              - name: "department"
                description: "Full department name"
              - name: "INSEE"
                description: "INSEE numeric identifier"
--

[[regionmap-ES-map]]`map.regionmap.includeElasticMapsService:`:: Turns on or off
whether layers from the Elastic Maps Service should be included in the vector
layer option list. Supported on {ece}. By turning this off, only the layers that
are configured here will be included. The default is `true`.

[[regionmap-attribution]]`map.regionmap.layers[].attribution:`:: Optional.
References the originating source of the geojson file. Supported on {ece}.

[[regionmap-fields]]`map.regionmap.layers[].fields[]:`:: Mandatory. Each layer
can contain multiple fields to indicate what properties from the geojson
features you wish to expose. The example above shows how to define multiple
properties. Supported on {ece}.

[[regionmap-field-description]]`map.regionmap.layers[].fields[].description:`::
Mandatory. The human readable text that is shown under the Options tab when
building the Region Map visualization. Supported on {ece}.

[[regionmap-field-name]]`map.regionmap.layers[].fields[].name:`:: Mandatory.
This value is used to do an inner-join between the document stored in
Elasticsearch and the geojson file. For example, if the field in the geojson is
called `Location` and has city names, there must be a field in Elasticsearch
that holds the same values that Kibana can then use to lookup for the geoshape
data. Supported on {ece}.

[[regionmap-name]]`map.regionmap.layers[].name:`:: Mandatory. A description of
the map being provided. Supported on {ece}.

[[regionmap-url]]`map.regionmap.layers[].url:`:: Mandatory. The location of the
geojson file as provided by a webserver. Supported on {ece}.

[[tilemap-settings]] `map.tilemap.options.attribution:`::
*Default: `"© [Elastic Maps Service](https://www.elastic.co/elastic-maps-service)"`*
The map attribution string. Supported on {ece}.

[[tilemap-max-zoom]]`map.tilemap.options.maxZoom:`:: *Default: 10* The maximum
zoom level. Supported on {ece}.

[[tilemap-min-zoom]]`map.tilemap.options.minZoom:`:: *Default: 1* The minimum
zoom level. Supported on {ece}.

[[tilemap-subdomains]]`map.tilemap.options.subdomains:`:: An array of subdomains
used by the tile service. Specify the position of the subdomain the URL with the
token `{s}`. Supported on {ece}.

[[tilemap-url]]`map.tilemap.url:`:: The URL to the tileservice that Kibana uses
to display map tiles in tilemap visualizations. Supported on {ece}. By default,
Kibana reads this url from an external metadata service, but users can still
override this parameter to use their own Tile Map Service. For example:
`"https://tiles.elastic.co/v2/default/{z}/{x}/{y}.png?elastic_tile_service_tos=agree&my_app_name=kibana"`

`ops.interval:`:: *Default: 5000* Set the interval in milliseconds to sample
system and process performance metrics. The minimum value is 100.

`path.data:`:: *Default: `data`* The path where Kibana stores persistent data
not saved in Elasticsearch.

`pid.file:`:: Specifies the path where Kibana creates the process ID file.

`server.basePath:`:: Enables you to specify a path to mount Kibana at if you are
running behind a proxy. Use the `server.rewriteBasePath` setting to tell Kibana
if it should remove the basePath from requests it receives, and to prevent a
deprecation warning at startup. This setting cannot end in a slash (`/`).

`server.customResponseHeaders:`:: *Default: `{}`* Header names and values to
  send on all responses to the client from the Kibana server.

[[server-default]]`server.defaultRoute:`:: *Default: "/app/kibana"* This setting
specifies the default route when opening Kibana. You can use this setting to
modify the landing page when opening Kibana. Supported on {ece}.

`server.host:`:: *Default: "localhost"* This setting specifies the host of the
back end server.

`server.maxPayloadBytes:`:: *Default: 1048576* The maximum payload size in bytes
for incoming server requests.

`server.name:`:: *Default: "your-hostname"* A human-readable display name that
identifies this Kibana instance.

`server.port:`:: *Default: 5601* Kibana is served by a back end server. This
setting specifies the port to use.

`server.rewriteBasePath:`:: *Default: false* Deprecated setting that specifies if Kibana should
rewrite requests that are prefixed with `server.basePath`, or require that they
are rewritten by your reverse proxy. 

`server.socketTimeout:`:: *Default: "120000"* The number of milliseconds to wait before closing an
inactive socket.

`server.ssl.certificate:` and `server.ssl.key:`:: Paths to the PEM-format SSL
certificate and SSL key files, respectively.

`server.ssl.certificateAuthorities:`:: List of paths to PEM encoded certificate
files that should be trusted.

`server.ssl.cipherSuites:`::
*Default: ECDHE-RSA-AES128-GCM-SHA256, ECDHE-ECDSA-AES128-GCM-SHA256, ECDHE-RSA-AES256-GCM-SHA384, ECDHE-ECDSA-AES256-GCM-SHA384, DHE-RSA-AES128-GCM-SHA256, ECDHE-RSA-AES128-SHA256, DHE-RSA-AES128-SHA256, ECDHE-RSA-AES256-SHA384, DHE-RSA-AES256-SHA384, ECDHE-RSA-AES256-SHA256, DHE-RSA-AES256-SHA256, HIGH,!aNULL, !eNULL, !EXPORT, !DES, !RC4, !MD5, !PSK, !SRP, !CAMELLIA*.
Details on the format, and the valid options, are available via the
https://www.openssl.org/docs/man1.0.2/apps/ciphers.html#CIPHER-LIST-FORMAT[OpenSSL cipher list format documentation].

`server.ssl.enabled:`:: *Default: "false"* Enables SSL for outgoing requests
from the Kibana server to the browser. When set to `true`,
`server.ssl.certificate` and `server.ssl.key` are required.

`server.ssl.keyPassphrase:`:: The passphrase that will be used to decrypt the
private key. This value is optional as the key may not be encrypted.

`server.ssl.redirectHttpFromPort:`:: Kibana will bind to this port and redirect
all http requests to https over the port configured as `server.port`.

`server.ssl.supportedProtocols:`:: *Default: TLSv1.1, TLSv1.2*  An array of
supported protocols with versions. Valid protocols: `TLSv1`, `TLSv1.1`, `TLSv1.2`

`status.allowAnonymous:`:: *Default: false* If authentication is enabled,
setting this to `true` enables unauthenticated users to access the Kibana server
status API and status page.

`vega.enableExternalUrls:`:: *Default: false* Set this value to true to allow Vega to use any URL to access external data sources and images. If false, Vega can only get data from Elasticsearch.

`xpack.license_management.enabled`:: *Default: true* Set this value to false to
disable the License Management user interface.

`xpack.rollup.enabled:`:: *Default: true* Set this value to false to disable the
Rollup user interface.

`i18n.locale`:: *Default: en* Set this value to change the Kibana interface language. Valid locales are: `en`, `zh-CN`, `ja-JP`.


include::{docdir}/settings/apm-settings.asciidoc[]
include::{docdir}/settings/code-settings.asciidoc[]
include::{docdir}/settings/dev-settings.asciidoc[]
include::{docdir}/settings/graph-settings.asciidoc[]
include::{docdir}/settings/infrastructure-ui-settings.asciidoc[]
include::{docdir}/settings/i18n-settings.asciidoc[]
include::{docdir}/settings/logs-ui-settings.asciidoc[]
include::{docdir}/settings/ml-settings.asciidoc[]
include::{docdir}/settings/monitoring-settings.asciidoc[]
include::{docdir}/settings/reporting-settings.asciidoc[]
include::secure-settings.asciidoc[]
include::{docdir}/settings/security-settings.asciidoc[]
include::{docdir}/settings/spaces-settings.asciidoc[]

Commit message:

[DOCS]Clarify that by default server.host only allows local connections (#52802) (#53301)
* [DOCS]Clarify that by default server.host only allows local connections

* Update docs/setup/access.asciidoc

Co-Authored-By: gchaps <33642766+gchaps@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update docs/setup/settings.asciidoc

Co-Authored-By: gchaps <33642766+gchaps@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update docs/setup/settings.asciidoc

Co-Authored-By: gchaps <33642766+gchaps@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/setup/settings.asciidoc, after:

[[settings]]
== Configuring Kibana

The Kibana server reads properties from the `kibana.yml` file on startup. The
location of this file differs depending on how you installed {kib}. For example,
if you installed {kib} from an archive distribution (`.tar.gz` or `.zip`), by
default it is in `$KIBANA_HOME/config`. By default, with package distributions
(Debian or RPM), it is in `/etc/kibana`.

The default host and port settings configure {kib} to run on `localhost:5601`. To change this behavior and allow remote users to connect, you'll need to update your `kibana.yml` file. You can also enable SSL and set a
variety of other options. Finally, environment variables can be injected into
configuration using `${MY_ENV_VAR}` syntax.

.Kibana configuration settings

`console.enabled:`:: *Default: true* Set to false to disable Console. Toggling
this will cause the server to regenerate assets on the next startup, which may
cause a delay before pages start being served.

`cpu.cgroup.path.override:`:: Override for cgroup cpu path when mounted in a
manner that is inconsistent with `/proc/self/cgroup`

`cpuacct.cgroup.path.override:`:: Override for cgroup cpuacct path when mounted
in a manner that is inconsistent with `/proc/self/cgroup`

`csp.rules:`:: A template
https://w3c.github.io/webappsec-csp/[content-security-policy] that disables
certain unnecessary and potentially insecure capabilities in the browser. All
instances of `{nonce}` will be replaced with an automatically generated nonce at
load time. We strongly recommend that you keep the default CSP rules that ship
with Kibana.

`csp.strict:`:: *Default: `false`* Blocks access to Kibana to any browser that
does not enforce even rudimentary CSP rules. In practice, this will disable
support for older, less safe browsers like Internet Explorer.
See <<csp-strict-mode, Content Security Policy>> for more information.

`csp.warnLegacyBrowsers:`:: *Default: `true`* Shows a warning message after
loading Kibana to any browser that does not enforce even rudimentary CSP rules,
though Kibana is still accessible. This configuration is effectively ignored
when `csp.strict` is enabled.

`elasticsearch.customHeaders:`:: *Default: `{}`* Header names and values to send
to Elasticsearch. Any custom headers cannot be overwritten by client-side
headers, regardless of the `elasticsearch.requestHeadersWhitelist` configuration.

`elasticsearch.hosts:`:: *Default: "http://localhost:9200"* The URLs of the
Elasticsearch instances to use for all your queries. All nodes listed here must
be on the same cluster.

`elasticsearch.logQueries:`:: *Default: `false`* Logs queries sent to
Elasticsearch. Requires `logging.verbose` set to `true`. This is useful for
seeing the query DSL generated by applications that currently do not have an
inspector, for example Timelion and Monitoring.

`elasticsearch.pingTimeout:`::
*Default: the value of the `elasticsearch.requestTimeout` setting* Time in
milliseconds to wait for Elasticsearch to respond to pings.

`elasticsearch.preserveHost:`:: *Default: true* When this setting’s value is
true, Kibana uses the hostname specified in the `server.host` setting. When the
value of this setting is `false`, Kibana uses the hostname of the host that
connects to this Kibana instance.

`elasticsearch.requestHeadersWhitelist:`:: *Default: `[ 'authorization' ]`* List
of Kibana client-side headers to send to Elasticsearch. To send *no* client-side
headers, set this value to [] (an empty list).
Removing the `authorization` header from being whitelisted means that you cannot
use <<basic-authentication, basic authentication>> in Kibana.

`elasticsearch.requestTimeout:`:: *Default: 30000* Time in milliseconds to wait
for responses from the back end or Elasticsearch. This value must be a positive
integer.

`elasticsearch.shardTimeout:`:: *Default: 30000* Time in milliseconds for
Elasticsearch to wait for responses from shards. Set to 0 to disable.

`elasticsearch.sniffInterval:`:: *Default: false* Time in milliseconds between
requests to check Elasticsearch for an updated list of nodes.

`elasticsearch.sniffOnConnectionFault:`:: *Default: false* Update the list of
Elasticsearch nodes immediately following a connection fault.

`elasticsearch.sniffOnStart:`:: *Default: false* Attempt to find other
Elasticsearch nodes on startup.

`elasticsearch.ssl.alwaysPresentCertificate:`:: *Default: false* Controls
whether to always present the certificate specified by
`elasticsearch.ssl.certificate` when requested. This applies to all requests to
Elasticsearch, including requests that are proxied for end-users. Setting this
to `true` when Elasticsearch is using certificates to authenticate users can
lead to proxied requests for end-users being executed as the identity tied to
the configured certificate.

`elasticsearch.ssl.certificate:` and `elasticsearch.ssl.key:`:: Optional
settings that provide the paths to the PEM-format SSL certificate and key files.
These files are used to verify the identity of Kibana to Elasticsearch and are
required when `xpack.ssl.verification_mode` in Elasticsearch is set to either
`certificate` or `full`.

`elasticsearch.ssl.certificateAuthorities:`:: Optional setting that enables you
to specify a list of paths to the PEM file for the certificate authority for
your Elasticsearch instance.

`elasticsearch.ssl.keyPassphrase:`:: The passphrase that will be used to decrypt
the private key. This value is optional as the key may not be encrypted.

`elasticsearch.ssl.verificationMode:`:: *Default: full* Controls the
verification of certificates presented by Elasticsearch. Valid values are `none`,
`certificate`, and `full`. `full` performs hostname verification, and
`certificate` does not.

`elasticsearch.startupTimeout:`:: *Default: 5000* Time in milliseconds to wait
for Elasticsearch at Kibana startup before retrying.

`elasticsearch.username:` and `elasticsearch.password:`:: If your Elasticsearch
is protected with basic authentication, these settings provide the username and
password that the Kibana server uses to perform maintenance on the Kibana index
at startup. Your Kibana users still need to authenticate with Elasticsearch,
which is proxied through the Kibana server.

`interpreter.enableInVisualize`:: *Default: true* Enables use of interpreter in
Visualize.

`kibana.defaultAppId:`:: *Default: "home"* The default application to load.

`kibana.index:`:: *Default: ".kibana"* Kibana uses an index in Elasticsearch to
store saved searches, visualizations and dashboards. Kibana creates a new index
if the index doesn’t already exist. If you configure a custom index, the name must
be lowercase, and conform to {es} {ref}/indices-create-index.html[index name limitations].
+
When running multiple tenants of {kib} by changing the `kibana.index` in your `kibana.yml`,
you cannot use the `kibana_user` or `kibana_dashboard_only_user` roles
to grant access to {kib}.
You must create custom roles that authorize the user for that specific tenant.
Although multi-tenant installations are supported, the recommended approach
to securing access to {kib} segments is to grant users access to specific spaces.


`kibana.autocompleteTimeout:`:: *Default: "1000"* Time in milliseconds to wait
for autocomplete suggestions from Elasticsearch. This value must be a whole number
greater than zero.

`kibana.autocompleteTerminateAfter:`:: *Default: "100000"* Maximum number of
documents loaded by each shard to generate autocomplete suggestions. This value
must be a whole number greater than zero.

`logging.dest:`:: *Default: `stdout`* Enables you specify a file where Kibana
stores log output.

`logging.json:`:: *Default: false* Logs output as JSON. When set to `true`, the
logs will be formatted as JSON strings that include timestamp, log level, context, message
text and any other metadata that may be associated with the log message itself.
If `logging.dest.stdout` is set and there is no interactive terminal ("TTY"), this setting
will default to `true`.

`logging.quiet:`:: *Default: false* Set the value of this setting to `true` to
suppress all logging output other than error messages.

`logging.silent:`:: *Default: false* Set the value of this setting to `true` to
suppress all logging output.

`logging.timezone`:: *Default: UTC* Set to the canonical timezone id
(for example, `America/Los_Angeles`) to log events using that timezone. A list of timezones can
be referenced at https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tz_database_time_zones.

[[logging-verbose]]`logging.verbose:`:: *Default: false* Set the value of this
setting to `true` to log all events, including system usage information and all
requests. Supported on {ece}.

`map.includeElasticMapsService:`:: *Default: true*
Set to false to disable connections to Elastic Maps Service.
When `includeElasticMapsService` is turned off, only the vector layers configured by `map.regionmap`
and the tile layer configured by `map.tilemap.url` will be available in the <<maps, Maps application>>,
<<tilemap, Coordinate map visualizations>>, and <<regionmap, Region map visualizations>>.

`map.proxyElasticMapsServiceInMaps:`:: *Default: false*
Set to true to proxy all <<maps, Maps application>> Elastic Maps Service requests through the Kibana server.
This setting does not impact <<tilemap, Coordinate map visualizations>> and <<regionmap, Region map visualizations>>.

[[regionmap-settings]] `map.regionmap:`:: Specifies additional vector layers for
use in <<regionmap, Region Map>> visualizations. Supported on {ece}. Each layer
object points to an external vector file that contains a geojson
FeatureCollection. The file must use the
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/World_Geodetic_System[WGS84 coordinate reference system]
and only include polygons. If the file is hosted on a separate domain from
Kibana, the server needs to be CORS-enabled so Kibana can download the file. The
following example shows a valid regionmap configuration.
+
--
    map.regionmap:
      includeElasticMapsService: false
      layers:
         - name: "Departments of France"
           url: "http://my.cors.enabled.server.org/france_departements.geojson"
           attribution: "INRAP"
           fields:
              - name: "department"
                description: "Full department name"
              - name: "INSEE"
                description: "INSEE numeric identifier"
--

[[regionmap-ES-map]]`map.regionmap.includeElasticMapsService:`:: Turns on or off
whether layers from the Elastic Maps Service should be included in the vector
layer option list. Supported on {ece}. By turning this off, only the layers that
are configured here will be included. The default is `true`.

[[regionmap-attribution]]`map.regionmap.layers[].attribution:`:: Optional.
References the originating source of the geojson file. Supported on {ece}.

[[regionmap-fields]]`map.regionmap.layers[].fields[]:`:: Mandatory. Each layer
can contain multiple fields to indicate what properties from the geojson
features you wish to expose. The example above shows how to define multiple
properties. Supported on {ece}.

[[regionmap-field-description]]`map.regionmap.layers[].fields[].description:`::
Mandatory. The human readable text that is shown under the Options tab when
building the Region Map visualization. Supported on {ece}.

[[regionmap-field-name]]`map.regionmap.layers[].fields[].name:`:: Mandatory.
This value is used to do an inner-join between the document stored in
Elasticsearch and the geojson file. For example, if the field in the geojson is
called `Location` and has city names, there must be a field in Elasticsearch
that holds the same values that Kibana can then use to lookup for the geoshape
data. Supported on {ece}.

[[regionmap-name]]`map.regionmap.layers[].name:`:: Mandatory. A description of
the map being provided. Supported on {ece}.

[[regionmap-url]]`map.regionmap.layers[].url:`:: Mandatory. The location of the
geojson file as provided by a webserver. Supported on {ece}.

[[tilemap-settings]] `map.tilemap.options.attribution:`::
*Default: `"© [Elastic Maps Service](https://www.elastic.co/elastic-maps-service)"`*
The map attribution string. Supported on {ece}.

[[tilemap-max-zoom]]`map.tilemap.options.maxZoom:`:: *Default: 10* The maximum
zoom level. Supported on {ece}.

[[tilemap-min-zoom]]`map.tilemap.options.minZoom:`:: *Default: 1* The minimum
zoom level. Supported on {ece}.

[[tilemap-subdomains]]`map.tilemap.options.subdomains:`:: An array of subdomains
used by the tile service. Specify the position of the subdomain the URL with the
token `{s}`. Supported on {ece}.

[[tilemap-url]]`map.tilemap.url:`:: The URL to the tileservice that Kibana uses
to display map tiles in tilemap visualizations. Supported on {ece}. By default,
Kibana reads this url from an external metadata service, but users can still
override this parameter to use their own Tile Map Service. For example:
`"https://tiles.elastic.co/v2/default/{z}/{x}/{y}.png?elastic_tile_service_tos=agree&my_app_name=kibana"`

`ops.interval:`:: *Default: 5000* Set the interval in milliseconds to sample
system and process performance metrics. The minimum value is 100.

`path.data:`:: *Default: `data`* The path where Kibana stores persistent data
not saved in Elasticsearch.

`pid.file:`:: Specifies the path where Kibana creates the process ID file.

`server.basePath:`:: Enables you to specify a path to mount Kibana at if you are
running behind a proxy. Use the `server.rewriteBasePath` setting to tell Kibana
if it should remove the basePath from requests it receives, and to prevent a
deprecation warning at startup. This setting cannot end in a slash (`/`).

`server.customResponseHeaders:`:: *Default: `{}`* Header names and values to
  send on all responses to the client from the Kibana server.

[[server-default]]`server.defaultRoute:`:: *Default: "/app/kibana"* This setting
specifies the default route when opening Kibana. You can use this setting to
modify the landing page when opening Kibana. Supported on {ece}.

`server.host:`:: *Default: "localhost"* This setting specifies the host of the
back end server. To allow remote users to connect, set the value to the IP address or DNS name of the {kib} server.

`server.maxPayloadBytes:`:: *Default: 1048576* The maximum payload size in bytes
for incoming server requests.

`server.name:`:: *Default: "your-hostname"* A human-readable display name that
identifies this Kibana instance.

`server.port:`:: *Default: 5601* Kibana is served by a back end server. This
setting specifies the port to use.

`server.rewriteBasePath:`:: *Default: false* Deprecated setting that specifies if Kibana should
rewrite requests that are prefixed with `server.basePath`, or require that they
are rewritten by your reverse proxy.

`server.socketTimeout:`:: *Default: "120000"* The number of milliseconds to wait before closing an
inactive socket.

`server.ssl.certificate:` and `server.ssl.key:`:: Paths to the PEM-format SSL
certificate and SSL key files, respectively.

`server.ssl.certificateAuthorities:`:: List of paths to PEM encoded certificate
files that should be trusted.

`server.ssl.cipherSuites:`::
*Default: ECDHE-RSA-AES128-GCM-SHA256, ECDHE-ECDSA-AES128-GCM-SHA256, ECDHE-RSA-AES256-GCM-SHA384, ECDHE-ECDSA-AES256-GCM-SHA384, DHE-RSA-AES128-GCM-SHA256, ECDHE-RSA-AES128-SHA256, DHE-RSA-AES128-SHA256, ECDHE-RSA-AES256-SHA384, DHE-RSA-AES256-SHA384, ECDHE-RSA-AES256-SHA256, DHE-RSA-AES256-SHA256, HIGH,!aNULL, !eNULL, !EXPORT, !DES, !RC4, !MD5, !PSK, !SRP, !CAMELLIA*.
Details on the format, and the valid options, are available via the
https://www.openssl.org/docs/man1.0.2/apps/ciphers.html#CIPHER-LIST-FORMAT[OpenSSL cipher list format documentation].

`server.ssl.enabled:`:: *Default: "false"* Enables SSL for outgoing requests
from the Kibana server to the browser. When set to `true`,
`server.ssl.certificate` and `server.ssl.key` are required.

`server.ssl.keyPassphrase:`:: The passphrase that will be used to decrypt the
private key. This value is optional as the key may not be encrypted.

`server.ssl.redirectHttpFromPort:`:: Kibana will bind to this port and redirect
all http requests to https over the port configured as `server.port`.

`server.ssl.supportedProtocols:`:: *Default: TLSv1.1, TLSv1.2*  An array of
supported protocols with versions. Valid protocols: `TLSv1`, `TLSv1.1`, `TLSv1.2`

`status.allowAnonymous:`:: *Default: false* If authentication is enabled,
setting this to `true` enables unauthenticated users to access the Kibana server
status API and status page.

`vega.enableExternalUrls:`:: *Default: false* Set this value to true to allow Vega to use any URL to access external data sources and images. If false, Vega can only get data from Elasticsearch.

`xpack.license_management.enabled`:: *Default: true* Set this value to false to
disable the License Management user interface.

`xpack.rollup.enabled:`:: *Default: true* Set this value to false to disable the
Rollup user interface.

`i18n.locale`:: *Default: en* Set this value to change the Kibana interface language. Valid locales are: `en`, `zh-CN`, `ja-JP`.


include::{docdir}/settings/apm-settings.asciidoc[]
include::{docdir}/settings/code-settings.asciidoc[]
include::{docdir}/settings/dev-settings.asciidoc[]
include::{docdir}/settings/graph-settings.asciidoc[]
include::{docdir}/settings/infrastructure-ui-settings.asciidoc[]
include::{docdir}/settings/i18n-settings.asciidoc[]
include::{docdir}/settings/logs-ui-settings.asciidoc[]
include::{docdir}/settings/ml-settings.asciidoc[]
include::{docdir}/settings/monitoring-settings.asciidoc[]
include::{docdir}/settings/reporting-settings.asciidoc[]
include::secure-settings.asciidoc[]
include::{docdir}/settings/security-settings.asciidoc[]
include::{docdir}/settings/spaces-settings.asciidoc[]
