src/platform/packages/shared/kbn-esql-ast/README.md, before:

# ES|QL AST library

The general idea of this package is to provide low-level ES|QL parsing,
building, traversal, pretty-printing, and manipulation features on top of a
custom compact AST representation, which is designed to be resilient to many
grammar changes.


### Contents of the package

At the lowest level, the package provides a parser that converts ES|QL text into
an AST representation. Or, you can use the `Builder` class to construct the AST
manually:

- [`parser` &mdash; Contains text to ES|QL AST parsing code](./src/parser/README.md).
- [`builder` &mdash; Contains the `Builder` class for AST node construction](./src/builder/README.md).

The *Traversal API* lets you walk the AST. The `Walker` class is a simple
to use, but the `Visitor` class is more powerful and flexible:

- [`walker` &mdash; Contains the ES|QL AST `Walker` utility](./src/walker/README.md).
- [`visitor` &mdash; Contains the ES|QL AST `Visitor` utility](./src/visitor/README.md).

Higher-level functionality is provided by the `mutate` and `synth` modules. They
allow you to traverse and modify the AST, or to easily construct AST nodes:

- [`mutate` &mdash; Contains code for traversing and mutating the AST](./src/mutate/README.md).
- [`synth` &mdash; Ability to construct AST nodes from template strings](./src/synth/README.md).

The *Pretty-printing API* lets you format the AST to text. There are two
implementations &mdash; a basic pretty-printer and a wrapping pretty-printer:

- [`pretty_print` &mdash; Contains code for formatting AST to text](./src/pretty_print/README.md).


## Demo

Much of the functionality of this package is demonstrated in the demo UI. You
can run it in Storybook, using the following command:

```bash
yarn storybook esql_ast_inspector
```

Alternatively, you can start Kibana with *Example Plugins* enabled, using:

```bash
yarn start --run-examples
```

Then navigate to the *ES|QL AST Inspector* plugin in the Kibana UI.


## Keeping ES|QL AST library up to date

In general when operating on changes here use the `yarn kbn watch` in a terminal
window to make sure changes are correctly compiled.

Commit message:

[ES|QL] Cleanup after moving commands related code to registry

src/platform/packages/shared/kbn-esql-ast/README.md, after:

# ES|QL AST library

The general idea of this package is to provide low-level ES|QL parsing,
building, traversal, pretty-printing, and manipulation features on top of a
custom compact AST representation, which is designed to be resilient to many
grammar changes.


### Contents of the package

At the lowest level, the package provides a parser that converts ES|QL text into
an AST representation. Or, you can use the `Builder` class to construct the AST
manually:

- [`parser` &mdash; Contains text to ES|QL AST parsing code](./src/parser/README.md).
- [`builder` &mdash; Contains the `Builder` class for AST node construction](./src/builder/README.md).

The *Traversal API* lets you walk the AST. The `Walker` class is a simple
to use, but the `Visitor` class is more powerful and flexible:

- [`walker` &mdash; Contains the ES|QL AST `Walker` utility](./src/walker/README.md).
- [`visitor` &mdash; Contains the ES|QL AST `Visitor` utility](./src/visitor/README.md).

Higher-level functionality is provided by the `mutate` and `synth` modules. They
allow you to traverse and modify the AST, or to easily construct AST nodes:

- [`mutate` &mdash; Contains code for traversing and mutating the AST](./src/mutate/README.md).
- [`synth` &mdash; Ability to construct AST nodes from template strings](./src/synth/README.md).

The *Pretty-printing API* lets you format the AST to text. There are two
implementations &mdash; a basic pretty-printer and a wrapping pretty-printer:

- [`pretty_print` &mdash; Contains code for formatting AST to text](./src/pretty_print/README.md).

The *Commands registry* allows you to register a new command:

- [`commands_registry` &mdash; Provides a centralized system for managing and interacting with ES|QL commands](./src/commands_registry/README.md).


## Demo

Much of the functionality of this package is demonstrated in the demo UI. You
can run it in Storybook, using the following command:

```bash
yarn storybook esql_ast_inspector
```

Alternatively, you can start Kibana with *Example Plugins* enabled, using:

```bash
yarn start --run-examples
```

Then navigate to the *ES|QL AST Inspector* plugin in the Kibana UI.


## Keeping ES|QL AST library up to date

In general when operating on changes here use the `yarn kbn watch` in a terminal
window to make sure changes are correctly compiled.
