<!-- Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter. -->

[Home](./index.md) &gt; [kibana-plugin-server](./kibana-plugin-server.md) &gt; [RouteConfigOptions](./kibana-plugin-server.routeconfigoptions.md) &gt; [output](./kibana-plugin-server.routeconfigoptions.output.md)

## RouteConfigOptions.output property

Default value: 'data'. The processed payload format. The value must be one of: \* 'data' - the incoming payload is read fully into memory. If parse is true, the payload is parsed (JSON, form-decoded, multipart) based on the 'Content-Type' header. If parse is false, a raw Buffer is returned. \* 'stream' - the incoming payload is made available via a Stream.Readable interface. If the payload is 'multipart/form-data' and parse is true, field values are presented as text while files are provided as streams. File streams from a 'multipart/form-data' upload will also have a hapi property containing the filename and headers properties. Note that payload streams for multipart payloads are a synthetic interface created on top of the entire mutlipart content loaded into memory. To avoid loading large multipart payloads into memory, set parse to false and handle the multipart payload in the handler using a streaming parser (e.g. pez). \* 'file' - the incoming payload is written to temporary file in the directory specified by the uploads settings. If the payload is 'multipart/form-data' and parse is true, field values are presented as text while files are saved to disk. Note that it is the sole responsibility of the application to clean up the files generated by the framework. This can be done by keeping track of which files are used (e.g. using the request.app object), and listening to the server 'response' event to perform cleanup.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
output?: Method extends 'get' ? never : 'data' | 'stream' | 'file';
```
