docs/development/core/server/kibana-plugin-core-server.pluginmanifest.md, before:

<!-- Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter. -->

[Home](./index.md) &gt; [kibana-plugin-core-server](./kibana-plugin-core-server.md) &gt; [PluginManifest](./kibana-plugin-core-server.pluginmanifest.md)

## PluginManifest interface

Describes the set of required and optional properties plugin can define in its mandatory JSON manifest file.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
export interface PluginManifest 
```

## Remarks

Should never be used in code outside of Core but is exported for documentation purposes.

## Properties

|  Property | Type | Description |
|  --- | --- | --- |
|  [configPath](./kibana-plugin-core-server.pluginmanifest.configpath.md) | ConfigPath | Root  used by the plugin, defaults to "id" in snake\_case format. |
|  [description?](./kibana-plugin-core-server.pluginmanifest.description.md) | string | <i>(Optional)</i> TODO: make required once all plugins specify this. A brief description of what this plugin does and any capabilities it provides. |
|  [extraPublicDirs?](./kibana-plugin-core-server.pluginmanifest.extrapublicdirs.md) | string\[\] | <i>(Optional)</i> Specifies directory names that can be imported by other ui-plugins built using the same instance of the @<!-- -->kbn/optimizer. A temporary measure we plan to replace with better mechanisms for sharing static code between plugins |
|  [id](./kibana-plugin-core-server.pluginmanifest.id.md) | PluginName | Identifier of the plugin. Must be a string in camelCase. Part of a plugin public contract. Other plugins leverage it to access plugin API, navigate to the plugin, etc. |
|  [kibanaVersion](./kibana-plugin-core-server.pluginmanifest.kibanaversion.md) | string | The version of Kibana the plugin is compatible with, defaults to "version". |
|  [optionalPlugins](./kibana-plugin-core-server.pluginmanifest.optionalplugins.md) | readonly PluginName\[\] | An optional list of the other plugins that if installed and enabled \*\*may be\*\* leveraged by this plugin for some additional functionality but otherwise are not required for this plugin to work properly. |
|  [owner](./kibana-plugin-core-server.pluginmanifest.owner.md) | { readonly name: string; readonly githubTeam?: string; } |  |
|  [requiredBundles](./kibana-plugin-core-server.pluginmanifest.requiredbundles.md) | readonly string\[\] | List of plugin ids that this plugin's UI code imports modules from that are not in <code>requiredPlugins</code>. |
|  [requiredPlugins](./kibana-plugin-core-server.pluginmanifest.requiredplugins.md) | readonly PluginName\[\] | An optional list of the other plugins that \*\*must be\*\* installed and enabled for this plugin to function properly. |
|  [server](./kibana-plugin-core-server.pluginmanifest.server.md) | boolean | Specifies whether plugin includes some server-side specific functionality. |
|  [serviceFolders?](./kibana-plugin-core-server.pluginmanifest.servicefolders.md) | readonly string\[\] | <i>(Optional)</i> Only used for the automatically generated API documentation. Specifying service folders will cause your plugin API reference to be broken up into sub sections. |
|  [type](./kibana-plugin-core-server.pluginmanifest.type.md) | PluginType | Type of the plugin, defaults to <code>standard</code>. |
|  [ui](./kibana-plugin-core-server.pluginmanifest.ui.md) | boolean | Specifies whether plugin includes some client/browser specific functionality that should be included into client bundle via <code>public/ui_plugin.js</code> file. |
|  [version](./kibana-plugin-core-server.pluginmanifest.version.md) | string | Version of the plugin. |

Commit message:

Add "enableForAnonymousPages" plugin manifest property
The rendering service returns the list of UI plugins to the browser
in kbn-injected-metadata.
This boolean property specifies whether the plugin is included in
that list when the page is anonymous. Now, any plugins that do not
explicitly specify this property are excluded from anonymous pages
(login page, status page when configured, etc.)

docs/development/core/server/kibana-plugin-core-server.pluginmanifest.md, after:

<!-- Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter. -->

[Home](./index.md) &gt; [kibana-plugin-core-server](./kibana-plugin-core-server.md) &gt; [PluginManifest](./kibana-plugin-core-server.pluginmanifest.md)

## PluginManifest interface

Describes the set of required and optional properties plugin can define in its mandatory JSON manifest file.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
export interface PluginManifest 
```

## Remarks

Should never be used in code outside of Core but is exported for documentation purposes.

## Properties

|  Property | Type | Description |
|  --- | --- | --- |
|  [configPath](./kibana-plugin-core-server.pluginmanifest.configpath.md) | ConfigPath | Root  used by the plugin, defaults to "id" in snake\_case format. |
|  [description?](./kibana-plugin-core-server.pluginmanifest.description.md) | string | <i>(Optional)</i> TODO: make required once all plugins specify this. A brief description of what this plugin does and any capabilities it provides. |
|  [enableForAnonymousPages?](./kibana-plugin-core-server.pluginmanifest.enableforanonymouspages.md) | boolean | <i>(Optional)</i> Specifies whether this plugin will be enabled for anonymous pages (login page, status page when configured, etc.) Default is false. |
|  [extraPublicDirs?](./kibana-plugin-core-server.pluginmanifest.extrapublicdirs.md) | string\[\] | <i>(Optional)</i> Specifies directory names that can be imported by other ui-plugins built using the same instance of the @<!-- -->kbn/optimizer. A temporary measure we plan to replace with better mechanisms for sharing static code between plugins |
|  [id](./kibana-plugin-core-server.pluginmanifest.id.md) | PluginName | Identifier of the plugin. Must be a string in camelCase. Part of a plugin public contract. Other plugins leverage it to access plugin API, navigate to the plugin, etc. |
|  [kibanaVersion](./kibana-plugin-core-server.pluginmanifest.kibanaversion.md) | string | The version of Kibana the plugin is compatible with, defaults to "version". |
|  [optionalPlugins](./kibana-plugin-core-server.pluginmanifest.optionalplugins.md) | readonly PluginName\[\] | An optional list of the other plugins that if installed and enabled \*\*may be\*\* leveraged by this plugin for some additional functionality but otherwise are not required for this plugin to work properly. |
|  [owner](./kibana-plugin-core-server.pluginmanifest.owner.md) | { readonly name: string; readonly githubTeam?: string; } |  |
|  [requiredBundles](./kibana-plugin-core-server.pluginmanifest.requiredbundles.md) | readonly string\[\] | List of plugin ids that this plugin's UI code imports modules from that are not in <code>requiredPlugins</code>. |
|  [requiredPlugins](./kibana-plugin-core-server.pluginmanifest.requiredplugins.md) | readonly PluginName\[\] | An optional list of the other plugins that \*\*must be\*\* installed and enabled for this plugin to function properly. |
|  [server](./kibana-plugin-core-server.pluginmanifest.server.md) | boolean | Specifies whether plugin includes some server-side specific functionality. |
|  [serviceFolders?](./kibana-plugin-core-server.pluginmanifest.servicefolders.md) | readonly string\[\] | <i>(Optional)</i> Only used for the automatically generated API documentation. Specifying service folders will cause your plugin API reference to be broken up into sub sections. |
|  [type](./kibana-plugin-core-server.pluginmanifest.type.md) | PluginType | Type of the plugin, defaults to <code>standard</code>. |
|  [ui](./kibana-plugin-core-server.pluginmanifest.ui.md) | boolean | Specifies whether plugin includes some client/browser specific functionality that should be included into client bundle via <code>public/ui_plugin.js</code> file. |
|  [version](./kibana-plugin-core-server.pluginmanifest.version.md) | string | Version of the plugin. |
