docs/development/core/server/kibana-plugin-server.pluginconfigdescriptor.md, before:

<!-- Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter. -->

[Home](./index.md) &gt; [kibana-plugin-server](./kibana-plugin-server.md) &gt; [PluginConfigDescriptor](./kibana-plugin-server.pluginconfigdescriptor.md)

## PluginConfigDescriptor interface

Describes a plugin configuration schema and capabilities.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
export interface PluginConfigDescriptor<T = any> 
```

## Properties

|  Property | Type | Description |
|  --- | --- | --- |
|  [exposeToBrowser](./kibana-plugin-server.pluginconfigdescriptor.exposetobrowser.md) | <code>{</code><br/><code>        [P in keyof T]?: boolean;</code><br/><code>    }</code> | List of configuration properties that will be available on the client-side plugin. |
|  [schema](./kibana-plugin-server.pluginconfigdescriptor.schema.md) | <code>PluginConfigSchema&lt;T&gt;</code> | Schema to use to validate the plugin configuration.[PluginConfigSchema](./kibana-plugin-server.pluginconfigschema.md) |

## Example


```typescript
// my_plugin/server/index.ts
import { schema, TypeOf } from '@kbn/config-schema';
import { PluginConfigDescriptor } from 'kibana/server';

const configSchema = schema.object({
  secret: schema.string({ defaultValue: 'Only on server' }),
  uiProp: schema.string({ defaultValue: 'Accessible from client' }),
});

type ConfigType = TypeOf<typeof configSchema>;

export const config: PluginConfigDescriptor<ConfigType> = {
  exposeToBrowser: {
    uiProp: true,
  },
  schema: configSchema,
};

```

Commit message:

Implements config deprecation in New Platform (#52251)
* implements 'rename' and 'unset' deprecations

* introduce usage of ConfigDeprecationProvider

* adapt RawConfigService to only returns unmodified raw config

* apply deprecations when accessing config

* register legacy plugin deprecation in new platform

* implements ConfigService#validate

* add exemple config deprecation usage in testbed

* documentation

* export public config deprecation types

* fix new test due to rebase

* name ConfigDeprecationFactory

* update generated doc

* add tests for unset and move it to src/core/utils

* add tests for renameFromRoot and unusedFromRoot

* cast paths as any as get expects a fixed-length string array

* use specific logger for deprecations

* add additional test on renameFromRoot

* update migration guide

* migrate core deprecations to NP

* add integration test

* use same log context as legacy

* remove old deprecation warnings integration tests, now covered in NP

* migrates csp deprecation to NP

* removes deprecationWarningMixin from legacy

* remove legacy core deprecations

* remove unused import

* rename setupConfigSchemas to setupCoreConfig

* update generated doc

docs/development/core/server/kibana-plugin-server.pluginconfigdescriptor.md, after:

<!-- Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter. -->

[Home](./index.md) &gt; [kibana-plugin-server](./kibana-plugin-server.md) &gt; [PluginConfigDescriptor](./kibana-plugin-server.pluginconfigdescriptor.md)

## PluginConfigDescriptor interface

Describes a plugin configuration properties.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
export interface PluginConfigDescriptor<T = any> 
```

## Properties

|  Property | Type | Description |
|  --- | --- | --- |
|  [deprecations](./kibana-plugin-server.pluginconfigdescriptor.deprecations.md) | <code>ConfigDeprecationProvider</code> | Provider for the [ConfigDeprecation](./kibana-plugin-server.configdeprecation.md) to apply to the plugin configuration. |
|  [exposeToBrowser](./kibana-plugin-server.pluginconfigdescriptor.exposetobrowser.md) | <code>{</code><br/><code>        [P in keyof T]?: boolean;</code><br/><code>    }</code> | List of configuration properties that will be available on the client-side plugin. |
|  [schema](./kibana-plugin-server.pluginconfigdescriptor.schema.md) | <code>PluginConfigSchema&lt;T&gt;</code> | Schema to use to validate the plugin configuration.[PluginConfigSchema](./kibana-plugin-server.pluginconfigschema.md) |

## Example


```typescript
// my_plugin/server/index.ts
import { schema, TypeOf } from '@kbn/config-schema';
import { PluginConfigDescriptor } from 'kibana/server';

const configSchema = schema.object({
  secret: schema.string({ defaultValue: 'Only on server' }),
  uiProp: schema.string({ defaultValue: 'Accessible from client' }),
});

type ConfigType = TypeOf<typeof configSchema>;

export const config: PluginConfigDescriptor<ConfigType> = {
  exposeToBrowser: {
    uiProp: true,
  },
  schema: configSchema,
  deprecations: ({ rename, unused }) => [
    rename('securityKey', 'secret'),
    unused('deprecatedProperty'),
  ],
};

```
