docs/development/core/server/kibana-plugin-core-server.discoveredplugin.md, before:

<!-- Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter. -->

[Home](./index.md) &gt; [kibana-plugin-core-server](./kibana-plugin-core-server.md) &gt; [DiscoveredPlugin](./kibana-plugin-core-server.discoveredplugin.md)

## DiscoveredPlugin interface

Small container object used to expose information about discovered plugins that may or may not have been started.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
export interface DiscoveredPlugin 
```

## Properties

|  Property | Type | Description |
|  --- | --- | --- |
|  [configPath](./kibana-plugin-core-server.discoveredplugin.configpath.md) | ConfigPath | Root configuration path used by the plugin, defaults to "id" in snake\_case format. |
|  [id](./kibana-plugin-core-server.discoveredplugin.id.md) | PluginName | Identifier of the plugin. |
|  [optionalPlugins](./kibana-plugin-core-server.discoveredplugin.optionalplugins.md) | readonly PluginName\[\] | An optional list of the other plugins that if installed and enabled \*\*may be\*\* leveraged by this plugin for some additional functionality but otherwise are not required for this plugin to work properly. |
|  [requiredBundles](./kibana-plugin-core-server.discoveredplugin.requiredbundles.md) | readonly PluginName\[\] | List of plugin ids that this plugin's UI code imports modules from that are not in <code>requiredPlugins</code>. |
|  [requiredPlugins](./kibana-plugin-core-server.discoveredplugin.requiredplugins.md) | readonly PluginName\[\] | An optional list of the other plugins that \*\*must be\*\* installed and enabled for this plugin to function properly. |
|  [type](./kibana-plugin-core-server.discoveredplugin.type.md) | PluginType | Type of the plugin, defaults to <code>standard</code>. |

Commit message:

[8.2] Avoid loading all plugins on anonymous pages (#129555) (#129740)
* Avoid loading all plugins on anonymous pages (#129555)

(cherry picked from commit 6acf7c04816dd2b17eb00862c4714773e9f53e63)

# Conflicts:
#	x-pack/plugins/security/kibana.json
#	x-pack/plugins/security/public/plugin.tsx

* Update edit_role_page.tsx

docs/development/core/server/kibana-plugin-core-server.discoveredplugin.md, after:

<!-- Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter. -->

[Home](./index.md) &gt; [kibana-plugin-core-server](./kibana-plugin-core-server.md) &gt; [DiscoveredPlugin](./kibana-plugin-core-server.discoveredplugin.md)

## DiscoveredPlugin interface

Small container object used to expose information about discovered plugins that may or may not have been started.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
export interface DiscoveredPlugin 
```

## Properties

|  Property | Type | Description |
|  --- | --- | --- |
|  [configPath](./kibana-plugin-core-server.discoveredplugin.configpath.md) | ConfigPath | Root configuration path used by the plugin, defaults to "id" in snake\_case format. |
|  [enabledOnAnonymousPages?](./kibana-plugin-core-server.discoveredplugin.enabledonanonymouspages.md) | boolean | <i>(Optional)</i> Specifies whether this plugin - and its required dependencies - will be enabled for anonymous pages (login page, status page when configured, etc.) Default is false. |
|  [id](./kibana-plugin-core-server.discoveredplugin.id.md) | PluginName | Identifier of the plugin. |
|  [optionalPlugins](./kibana-plugin-core-server.discoveredplugin.optionalplugins.md) | readonly PluginName\[\] | An optional list of the other plugins that if installed and enabled \*\*may be\*\* leveraged by this plugin for some additional functionality but otherwise are not required for this plugin to work properly. |
|  [requiredBundles](./kibana-plugin-core-server.discoveredplugin.requiredbundles.md) | readonly PluginName\[\] | List of plugin ids that this plugin's UI code imports modules from that are not in <code>requiredPlugins</code>. |
|  [requiredPlugins](./kibana-plugin-core-server.discoveredplugin.requiredplugins.md) | readonly PluginName\[\] | An optional list of the other plugins that \*\*must be\*\* installed and enabled for this plugin to function properly. |
|  [type](./kibana-plugin-core-server.discoveredplugin.type.md) | PluginType | Type of the plugin, defaults to <code>standard</code>. |
