docs/development/core/server/kibana-plugin-core-server.savedobjectreferencewithcontext.md, before:

<!-- Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter. -->

[Home](./index.md) &gt; [kibana-plugin-core-server](./kibana-plugin-core-server.md) &gt; [SavedObjectReferenceWithContext](./kibana-plugin-core-server.savedobjectreferencewithcontext.md)

## SavedObjectReferenceWithContext interface

A returned input object or one of its references, with additional context.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
export interface SavedObjectReferenceWithContext 
```

## Properties

|  Property | Type | Description |
|  --- | --- | --- |
|  [id](./kibana-plugin-core-server.savedobjectreferencewithcontext.id.md) | string | The ID of the referenced object |
|  [inboundReferences](./kibana-plugin-core-server.savedobjectreferencewithcontext.inboundreferences.md) | Array&lt;{ type: string; id: string; name: string; }&gt; | References to this object; note that this does not contain \_all inbound references everywhere for this object\_, it only contains inbound references for the scope of this operation |
|  [isMissing?](./kibana-plugin-core-server.savedobjectreferencewithcontext.ismissing.md) | boolean | <i>(Optional)</i> Whether or not this object or reference is missing |
|  [spaces](./kibana-plugin-core-server.savedobjectreferencewithcontext.spaces.md) | string\[\] | The space(s) that the referenced object exists in |
|  [spacesWithMatchingAliases?](./kibana-plugin-core-server.savedobjectreferencewithcontext.spaceswithmatchingaliases.md) | string\[\] | <i>(Optional)</i> The space(s) that legacy URL aliases matching this type/id exist in |
|  [type](./kibana-plugin-core-server.savedobjectreferencewithcontext.type.md) | string | The type of the referenced object |

Commit message:

Change updateObjectsSpaces API to prevent multiple objects w/ same origin (#128269)
(cherry picked from commit cde42887d347de4787fbd951f5d23b9779687203)

docs/development/core/server/kibana-plugin-core-server.savedobjectreferencewithcontext.md, after:

<!-- Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter. -->

[Home](./index.md) &gt; [kibana-plugin-core-server](./kibana-plugin-core-server.md) &gt; [SavedObjectReferenceWithContext](./kibana-plugin-core-server.savedobjectreferencewithcontext.md)

## SavedObjectReferenceWithContext interface

A returned input object or one of its references, with additional context.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
export interface SavedObjectReferenceWithContext 
```

## Properties

|  Property | Type | Description |
|  --- | --- | --- |
|  [id](./kibana-plugin-core-server.savedobjectreferencewithcontext.id.md) | string | The ID of the referenced object |
|  [inboundReferences](./kibana-plugin-core-server.savedobjectreferencewithcontext.inboundreferences.md) | Array&lt;{ type: string; id: string; name: string; }&gt; | References to this object; note that this does not contain \_all inbound references everywhere for this object\_, it only contains inbound references for the scope of this operation |
|  [isMissing?](./kibana-plugin-core-server.savedobjectreferencewithcontext.ismissing.md) | boolean | <i>(Optional)</i> Whether or not this object or reference is missing |
|  [originId?](./kibana-plugin-core-server.savedobjectreferencewithcontext.originid.md) | string | <i>(Optional)</i> The origin ID of the referenced object (if it has one) |
|  [spaces](./kibana-plugin-core-server.savedobjectreferencewithcontext.spaces.md) | string\[\] | The space(s) that the referenced object exists in |
|  [spacesWithMatchingAliases?](./kibana-plugin-core-server.savedobjectreferencewithcontext.spaceswithmatchingaliases.md) | string\[\] | <i>(Optional)</i> The space(s) that legacy URL aliases matching this type/id exist in |
|  [spacesWithMatchingOrigins?](./kibana-plugin-core-server.savedobjectreferencewithcontext.spaceswithmatchingorigins.md) | string\[\] | <i>(Optional)</i> The space(s) that objects matching this origin exist in (including this one) |
|  [type](./kibana-plugin-core-server.savedobjectreferencewithcontext.type.md) | string | The type of the referenced object |
