docs/user/production-considerations/alerting-production-considerations.asciidoc, before:

[role="xpack"]
[[alerting-production-considerations]]
== Alerting production considerations

++++
<titleabbrev>Alerting</titleabbrev>
++++

Alerting runs both rule checks and actions as persistent background tasks managed by the Task Manager.

When relying on rules and actions as mission critical services, make sure you follow the <<task-manager-production-considerations, production considerations>> for Task Manager.

[float]
[[alerting-background-tasks]]
=== Running background rule checks and actions

{kib} uses background tasks to run rules and actions, distributed across all {kib} instances in the cluster.

By default, each {kib} instance polls for work at three second intervals, and can run a maximum of ten concurrent tasks.
These tasks are then run on the {kib} server.

Rules are recurring background tasks which are rescheduled according to the check interval on completion.
Actions are non-recurring background tasks which are deleted on completion.

For more details on Task Manager, see <<task-manager-background-tasks>>.

[IMPORTANT]
==============================================
Rule and action tasks can run late or at an inconsistent schedule.
This is typically a symptom of the specific usage of the cluster in question.

You can address such issues by tweaking the <<task-manager-settings,Task Manager settings>> or scaling the deployment to better suit your use case.

For detailed guidance, see <<alerting-troubleshooting, Alerting Troubleshooting>>.
==============================================

[float]
[[alerting-scaling-guidance]]
=== Scaling guidance

As rules and actions leverage background tasks to perform the majority of work, scaling Alerting is possible by following the <<task-manager-scaling-guidance,Task Manager Scaling Guidance>>.

When estimating the required task throughput, keep the following in mind:

* Each rule uses a single recurring task that is scheduled to run at the cadence defined by its check interval.
* Each action uses a single task. However, because actions are taken per instance, alerts can generate a large number of non-recurring tasks.

It is difficult to predict how much throughput is needed to ensure all rules and actions are executed at consistent schedules.
By counting rules as recurring tasks and actions as non-recurring tasks, a rough throughput <<task-manager-rough-throughput-estimation,can be estimated>> as a _tasks per minute_ measurement.

Predicting the buffer required to account for actions depends heavily on the rule types you use, the amount of alerts they might detect, and the number of actions you might choose to assign to action groups. With that in mind, regularly <<task-manager-health-monitoring,monitor the health>> of your Task Manager instances.

[float]
[[event-log-ilm]]
=== Event log index lifecycle management

experimental[]

Alerts and actions log activity in a set of "event log" indices.  These indices are configured with an index lifecycle management (ILM) policy, which you can customize.  The default policy rolls over the index when it reaches 50GB, or after 30 days.  Indices over 90 days old are deleted.

The name of the index policy is `kibana-event-log-policy`.  {kib} creates the index policy on startup, if it doesn't already exist.  The index policy can be customized for your environment, but {kib} never modifies the index policy after creating it.

Because {kib} uses the documents to display historic data, you should set the delete phase longer than you would like the historic data to be shown. For example, if you would like to see one month's worth of historic data, you should set the delete phase to at least one month.

For more information on index lifecycle management, see:
{ref}/index-lifecycle-management.html[Index Lifecycle Policies].

[float]
[[alerting-circuit-breakers]]
=== Circuit breakers

There are several scenarios where running alerting rules and actions can start to negatively impact the overall health of a {kib} instance either by clogging up Task Manager throughput or by consuming so much CPU/memory that other operations cannot complete in a reasonable amount of time. There are several <<alert-settings,configurable>> circuit breakers to help minimize these effects.

[float]
==== Rules with very short intervals

Running large numbers of rules at very short intervals can quickly clog up Task Manager throughput, leading to higher schedule drift. Use `xpack.alerting.rules.minimumScheduleInterval.value` to set a minimum schedule interval for rules. The default (and recommended) value for this configuration is `1m`. Use `xpack.alerting.rules.minimumScheduleInterval.enforce` to specify whether to strictly enforce this minimum. While the default value for this setting is `false` to maintain backwards compatibility with existing rules, set this to `true` to prevent new and updated rules from running at an interval below the minimum.

[float]
==== Rules that run for a long time

Rules that run for a long time typically do so because they are issuing resource-intensive {es} queries or performing CPU-intensive processing. This can block the event loop, making {kib} inaccessible while the rule runs. By default, rule processing is cancelled after `5m` but this can be overriden using the `xpack.alerting.rules.run.timeout` configuration. This value can also be configured per rule type using `xpack.alerting.rules.run.ruleTypeOverrides`. For example, the following configuration sets the global timeout value to `1m` while allowing *Index Threshold* rules to run for `10m` before being cancelled.

[source,yaml]
--
xpack.alerting.rules.run:
  timeout: '1m'
  ruleTypeOverrides:
    - id: '.index-threshold'
      timeout: '10m'
--

When a rule run is cancelled, any alerts and actions that were generated during the run are discarded. This behavior is controlled by the `xpack.alerting.cancelAlertsOnRuleTimeout` configuration, which defaults to `true`. Set this to `false` to receive alerts and actions after the timeout, although be aware that these may be incomplete and possibly inaccurate.

[float]
==== Rules that spawn too many actions

Rules that spawn too many actions can quickly clog up Task Manager throughput. This can occur if:

* A rule configured with a single action generates many alerts. For example, if a rule configured to run a single email action generates 100,000 alerts, then 100,000 actions will be scheduled during a run.
* A rule configured with multiple actions generates alerts. For example, if a rule configured to run an email action, a server log action and a webhook action generates 30,000 alerts, then 90,000 actions will be scheduled during a run.

Use `xpack.alerting.rules.run.actions.max` to limit the maximum number of actions a rule can generate per run. This value can also be configured by connector type using `xpack.alerting.rules.run.actions.connectorTypeOverrides`. For example, the following config sets the global maximum number of actions to 100 while allowing rules with *Email* actions to generate up to 200 actions.

[source,yaml]
--
xpack.alerting.rules.run:
  actions:
    max: 100
    connectorTypeOverrides:
      - id: '.email'
        max: 200
--

Commit message:

[EventLog] change to use Data stream lifecycle instead of ILM
The default continues to be 90 days for data detetention of event
log documents, and the rollover is now controlled by DLM, as
described in [Data stream lifecycle][].

[Data stream lifecycle]: https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/8.9/data-stream-lifecycle.html

Fixes the event log data stream to use Data stream lifecycle instead of
Index Lifecycle Management.  If you had previously customized the
Kibana event log ILM policy, you should now update the lifecycle of
the event log data stream itself.

docs/user/production-considerations/alerting-production-considerations.asciidoc, after:

[role="xpack"]
[[alerting-production-considerations]]
== Alerting production considerations

++++
<titleabbrev>Alerting</titleabbrev>
++++

Alerting runs both rule checks and actions as persistent background tasks managed by the Task Manager.

When relying on rules and actions as mission critical services, make sure you follow the <<task-manager-production-considerations, production considerations>> for Task Manager.

[float]
[[alerting-background-tasks]]
=== Running background rule checks and actions

{kib} uses background tasks to run rules and actions, distributed across all {kib} instances in the cluster.

By default, each {kib} instance polls for work at three second intervals, and can run a maximum of ten concurrent tasks.
These tasks are then run on the {kib} server.

Rules are recurring background tasks which are rescheduled according to the check interval on completion.
Actions are non-recurring background tasks which are deleted on completion.

For more details on Task Manager, see <<task-manager-background-tasks>>.

[IMPORTANT]
==============================================
Rule and action tasks can run late or at an inconsistent schedule.
This is typically a symptom of the specific usage of the cluster in question.

You can address such issues by tweaking the <<task-manager-settings,Task Manager settings>> or scaling the deployment to better suit your use case.

For detailed guidance, see <<alerting-troubleshooting, Alerting Troubleshooting>>.
==============================================

[float]
[[alerting-scaling-guidance]]
=== Scaling guidance

As rules and actions leverage background tasks to perform the majority of work, scaling Alerting is possible by following the <<task-manager-scaling-guidance,Task Manager Scaling Guidance>>.

When estimating the required task throughput, keep the following in mind:

* Each rule uses a single recurring task that is scheduled to run at the cadence defined by its check interval.
* Each action uses a single task. However, because actions are taken per instance, alerts can generate a large number of non-recurring tasks.

It is difficult to predict how much throughput is needed to ensure all rules and actions are executed at consistent schedules.
By counting rules as recurring tasks and actions as non-recurring tasks, a rough throughput <<task-manager-rough-throughput-estimation,can be estimated>> as a _tasks per minute_ measurement.

Predicting the buffer required to account for actions depends heavily on the rule types you use, the amount of alerts they might detect, and the number of actions you might choose to assign to action groups. With that in mind, regularly <<task-manager-health-monitoring,monitor the health>> of your Task Manager instances.

[float]
[[event-log-ilm]]
=== Event log index lifecycle management

experimental[]

Alerts and actions log activity in a set of "event log" data streams, one per Kibana version, named `.kibana-event-log-{VERSION}`.  These data streams are configured with a lifecycle data retention of 90 days. This can be updated to other values via the standard data stream lifecycle APIs.

For more information on data stream lifecycle management, see:
{ref}/data-stream-lifecycle.html[Data stream lifecycl].

[float]
[[alerting-circuit-breakers]]
=== Circuit breakers

There are several scenarios where running alerting rules and actions can start to negatively impact the overall health of a {kib} instance either by clogging up Task Manager throughput or by consuming so much CPU/memory that other operations cannot complete in a reasonable amount of time. There are several <<alert-settings,configurable>> circuit breakers to help minimize these effects.

[float]
==== Rules with very short intervals

Running large numbers of rules at very short intervals can quickly clog up Task Manager throughput, leading to higher schedule drift. Use `xpack.alerting.rules.minimumScheduleInterval.value` to set a minimum schedule interval for rules. The default (and recommended) value for this configuration is `1m`. Use `xpack.alerting.rules.minimumScheduleInterval.enforce` to specify whether to strictly enforce this minimum. While the default value for this setting is `false` to maintain backwards compatibility with existing rules, set this to `true` to prevent new and updated rules from running at an interval below the minimum.

[float]
==== Rules that run for a long time

Rules that run for a long time typically do so because they are issuing resource-intensive {es} queries or performing CPU-intensive processing. This can block the event loop, making {kib} inaccessible while the rule runs. By default, rule processing is cancelled after `5m` but this can be overriden using the `xpack.alerting.rules.run.timeout` configuration. This value can also be configured per rule type using `xpack.alerting.rules.run.ruleTypeOverrides`. For example, the following configuration sets the global timeout value to `1m` while allowing *Index Threshold* rules to run for `10m` before being cancelled.

[source,yaml]
--
xpack.alerting.rules.run:
  timeout: '1m'
  ruleTypeOverrides:
    - id: '.index-threshold'
      timeout: '10m'
--

When a rule run is cancelled, any alerts and actions that were generated during the run are discarded. This behavior is controlled by the `xpack.alerting.cancelAlertsOnRuleTimeout` configuration, which defaults to `true`. Set this to `false` to receive alerts and actions after the timeout, although be aware that these may be incomplete and possibly inaccurate.

[float]
==== Rules that spawn too many actions

Rules that spawn too many actions can quickly clog up Task Manager throughput. This can occur if:

* A rule configured with a single action generates many alerts. For example, if a rule configured to run a single email action generates 100,000 alerts, then 100,000 actions will be scheduled during a run.
* A rule configured with multiple actions generates alerts. For example, if a rule configured to run an email action, a server log action and a webhook action generates 30,000 alerts, then 90,000 actions will be scheduled during a run.

Use `xpack.alerting.rules.run.actions.max` to limit the maximum number of actions a rule can generate per run. This value can also be configured by connector type using `xpack.alerting.rules.run.actions.connectorTypeOverrides`. For example, the following config sets the global maximum number of actions to 100 while allowing rules with *Email* actions to generate up to 200 actions.

[source,yaml]
--
xpack.alerting.rules.run:
  actions:
    max: 100
    connectorTypeOverrides:
      - id: '.email'
        max: 200
--
