docs/user/production-considerations/production.asciidoc, before:

[[production]]
= Use {kib} in a production environment

++++
<titleabbrev>Production considerations</titleabbrev>
++++

How you deploy {kib} largely depends on your use case. If you are the only user,
you can run {kib} on your local machine and configure it to point to whatever
{es} instance you want to interact with. Conversely, if you have a large
number of heavy {kib} users, you might need to load balance across multiple
{kib} instances that are all connected to the same {es} instance.

While {kib} isn't terribly resource intensive, we still recommend running {kib}
separate from  your {es} data or master nodes. To distribute {kib}
traffic across the nodes in your {es} cluster,
you can configure {kib} to use a list of {es} hosts.

[float]
[[load-balancing-kibana]]
=== Load balancing across multiple {kib} instances
To serve multiple {kib} installations behind a load balancer, you must change the configuration.
See {kibana-ref}/settings.html[Configuring {kib}] for details on each setting.

Settings unique across each {kib} instance:
[source,js]
--------
server.uuid
server.name
--------

Settings unique across each host (for example, running multiple installations on the same virtual machine):
[source,js]
--------
path.data
pid.file
server.port
--------

When using a file appender, the target file must also be unique:
[source,yaml]
--------
logging:
  appenders:
    default:
      type: file
      fileName: /unique/path/per/instance
--------

Settings that must be the same:
[source,js]
--------
xpack.security.encryptionKey //decrypting session information
xpack.reporting.encryptionKey //decrypting reports
xpack.encryptedSavedObjects.encryptionKey // decrypting saved objects
xpack.encryptedSavedObjects.keyRotation.decryptionOnlyKeys // saved objects encryption key rotation, if any
--------

Separate configuration files can be used from the command line by using the `-c` flag:
[source,js]
--------
bin/kibana -c config/instance1.yml
bin/kibana -c config/instance2.yml
--------

[float]
[[accessing-load-balanced-kibana]]
=== Accessing multiple load-balanced {kib} clusters

To access multiple load-balanced {kib} clusters from the same browser,
set `xpack.security.cookieName` in the configuration.
This avoids conflicts between cookies from the different {kib} instances.

In each cluster, {kib} instances should have the same `cookieName`
value. This will achieve seamless high availability and keep the session
active in case of failure from the currently used instance.

[float]
[[high-availability]]
=== High availability across multiple {es} nodes
{kib} can be configured to connect to multiple {es} nodes in the same cluster.  In situations where a node becomes unavailable,
{kib} will transparently connect to an available node and continue operating.  Requests to available hosts will be routed in a round robin fashion.

In kibana.yml:
[source,js]
--------
elasticsearch.hosts:
  - http://elasticsearch1:9200
  - http://elasticsearch2:9200
--------

Related configurations include `elasticsearch.sniffInterval`, `elasticsearch.sniffOnStart`, and `elasticsearch.sniffOnConnectionFault`.
These can be used to automatically update the list of hosts as a cluster is resized.  Parameters can be found on the {kibana-ref}/settings.html[settings page].

[float]
[[memory]]
=== Memory

Kibana has a default memory limit that scales based on total memory available.  In some scenarios, such as large reporting jobs, 
it may make sense to tweak limits to meet more specific requirements.

A limit can be defined by setting `--max-old-space-size` in the `node.options` config file found inside the `kibana/config` folder or any other folder configured with the environment variable `KBN_PATH_CONF`. For example, in the Debian-based system, the folder is `/etc/kibana`.

The option accepts a limit in MB:
[source,js]
--------
--max-old-space-size=2048
--------

Commit message:

[DOC] Clarify rolling upgrades of Kibana are not supported and report… (#117644) (#122789)
* [DOC] Clarify rolling upgrades of Kibana are not supported and reporting settings

I would like to clarify:
- rolling upgrades are not supported and highlight all Kibana instances must be stopped prior an upgrade
- cookie statement might be misleading
- https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/kibana/current/reporting-settings-kb.html#reporting-kibana-server-settings reporting settings are missing

Please rephrase/reorganize the statements. A link to the reporting documentation would be useful.

* Update docs/user/production-considerations/production.asciidoc

Co-authored-by: gchaps <33642766+gchaps@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update docs/user/production-considerations/production.asciidoc

Co-authored-by: gchaps <33642766+gchaps@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update docs/user/production-considerations/production.asciidoc

* Update docs/user/production-considerations/production.asciidoc

* Update docs/user/production-considerations/production.asciidoc

* Update docs/user/production-considerations/production.asciidoc

* Update docs/user/production-considerations/production.asciidoc

* Update docs/user/production-considerations/production.asciidoc

* Update docs/user/production-considerations/production.asciidoc

Co-authored-by: gchaps <33642766+gchaps@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Kibana Machine <42973632+kibanamachine@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Kaarina Tungseth <kaarina.tungseth@elastic.co>
(cherry picked from commit f7a970dbc2e24af15fcb994e098e5c0fc6a31bcf)

Co-authored-by: Luca Belluccini <luca.belluccini@elastic.co>

docs/user/production-considerations/production.asciidoc, after:

[[production]]
= Use {kib} in a production environment

++++
<titleabbrev>Production considerations</titleabbrev>
++++

How you deploy {kib} largely depends on your use case. If you are the only user,
you can run {kib} on your local machine and configure it to point to whatever
{es} instance you want to interact with. Conversely, if you have a large
number of heavy {kib} users, you might need to load balance across multiple
{kib} instances that are all connected to the same {es} instance.

While {kib} isn't terribly resource intensive, we still recommend running {kib}
separate from  your {es} data or master nodes. To distribute {kib}
traffic across the nodes in your {es} cluster,
you can configure {kib} to use a list of {es} hosts.

[WARNING]
====
{kib} does not support rolling upgrades, and deploying mixed versions of {kib} can result in data loss or upgrade failures. Please shut down all instances of {kib} before performing an upgrade, and ensure all running {kib} instances have matching versions.
====

[float]
[[load-balancing-kibana]]
=== Load balancing across multiple {kib} instances
To serve multiple {kib} installations behind a load balancer, you must change the configuration.
See {kibana-ref}/settings.html[Configuring {kib}] for details on each setting.

Settings unique across each {kib} instance:
[source,js]
--------
server.uuid
server.name
--------

Settings unique across each host (for example, running multiple installations on the same virtual machine):
[source,js]
--------
path.data
pid.file
server.port
--------

When using a file appender, the target file must also be unique:
[source,yaml]
--------
logging:
  appenders:
    default:
      type: file
      fileName: /unique/path/per/instance
--------

Settings that must be the same:
[source,js]
--------
xpack.security.encryptionKey //decrypting session information
xpack.reporting.encryptionKey //decrypting reports
xpack.encryptedSavedObjects.encryptionKey // decrypting saved objects
xpack.encryptedSavedObjects.keyRotation.decryptionOnlyKeys // saved objects encryption key rotation, if any
--------

Separate configuration files can be used from the command line by using the `-c` flag:
[source,js]
--------
bin/kibana -c config/instance1.yml
bin/kibana -c config/instance2.yml
--------

[float]
[[accessing-load-balanced-kibana]]
=== Accessing multiple load-balanced {kib} clusters

To access multiple load-balanced {kib} clusters from the same browser,
explicitly set `xpack.security.cookieName` to the same value in the {kib} configuration
of each {kib} instance.

Each {kib} cluster must have a different value of `xpack.security.cookieName`.

This avoids conflicts between cookies from the different {kib} instances.

This will achieve seamless high availability and keep the session
active in case of failure from the currently used instance.



[float]
[[high-availability]]
=== High availability across multiple {es} nodes
{kib} can be configured to connect to multiple {es} nodes in the same cluster.  In situations where a node becomes unavailable,
{kib} will transparently connect to an available node and continue operating.  Requests to available hosts will be routed in a round robin fashion.

In kibana.yml:
[source,js]
--------
elasticsearch.hosts:
  - http://elasticsearch1:9200
  - http://elasticsearch2:9200
--------

Related configurations include `elasticsearch.sniffInterval`, `elasticsearch.sniffOnStart`, and `elasticsearch.sniffOnConnectionFault`.
These can be used to automatically update the list of hosts as a cluster is resized.  Parameters can be found on the {kibana-ref}/settings.html[settings page].

[float]
[[memory]]
=== Memory

Kibana has a default memory limit that scales based on total memory available.  In some scenarios, such as large reporting jobs, 
it may make sense to tweak limits to meet more specific requirements.

A limit can be defined by setting `--max-old-space-size` in the `node.options` config file found inside the `kibana/config` folder or any other folder configured with the environment variable `KBN_PATH_CONF`. For example, in the Debian-based system, the folder is `/etc/kibana`.

The option accepts a limit in MB:
[source,js]
--------
--max-old-space-size=2048
--------
