docs/management/advanced-options.asciidoc, before:

[[advanced-options]]
== Setting advanced options

The *Advanced Settings* page enables you to directly edit settings that control the behavior of the Kibana application.
For example, you can change the format used to display dates, specify the default index pattern, and set the precision
for displayed decimal values.

. Go to *Management > {kib} > Advanced Settings*.
. Scroll or search for the setting you want to modify.
. Enter a new value for the setting.

[float]
[[settings-read-only-access]]
=== [xpack]#Read only access#
When you have insufficient privileges to edit advanced settings, the following 
indicator in Kibana will be displayed. The buttons to edit settings won't be visible. 
For more information on granting access to Kibana see <<xpack-security-authorization>>.

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/settings-read-only-badge.png[Example of Advanced Settings Management's read only access indicator in Kibana's header]

[float]
[[kibana-settings-reference]]
=== Kibana settings reference

WARNING: Modifying a setting can affect {kib}
performance and cause problems that are
difficult to diagnose. Setting a property value to a blank field reverts 
to the default behavior, which might not be
compatible with other configuration settings. Deleting a custom setting 
removes it from {kib} permanently.


[float]
[[kibana-general-settings]]
=== General settings

[horizontal]
`csv:quoteValues`:: Set this property to `true` to quote exported values.
`csv:separator`:: A string that serves as the separator for exported values.
`dateFormat`:: The format to use for displaying https://momentjs.com/docs/#/displaying/format/[pretty formatted dates].
`dateFormat:dow`:: The day that a week should start on.
`dateFormat:scaled`:: The values that define the format to use to render ordered time-based data. Formatted timestamps must
adapt to the interval between measurements. Keys are http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_8601#Time_intervals[ISO8601 intervals].
`dateFormat:tz`:: The timezone that Kibana uses. The default value of `Browser` uses the timezone detected by the browser.
`dateNanosFormat`:: The format to use for displaying https://momentjs.com/docs/#/displaying/format/[pretty formatted dates] of {ref}/date_nanos.html[Elasticsearch date_nanos type].
`defaultIndex`:: The index to access if no index is set. The default is `null`. 
`fields:popularLimit`:: The top N most popular fields to show.
`filterEditor:suggestValues`:: Set this property to `false` to prevent the filter editor from suggesting values for fields.
`filters:pinnedByDefault`:: Set this property to `true` to make filters have a global state (be pinned) by default.
`format:bytes:defaultPattern`:: The default http://numeraljs.com/[numeral format] for the "bytes" format.
`format:currency:defaultPattern`:: The default http://numeraljs.com/[numeral format] for the "currency" format.
`format:defaultTypeMap`:: A map of the default format name for each field type. Field types that are not explicitly
mentioned use "\_default_".
`format:number:defaultLocale`:: The http://numeraljs.com/[numeral language] locale.
`format:number:defaultPattern`:: The default http://numeraljs.com/[numeral format] for the "number" format.
`format:percent:defaultPattern`:: The default http://numeraljs.com/[numeral format] for the "percent" format.
`histogram:barTarget`:: When date histograms use the `auto` interval, Kibana attempts to generate this number of bars.
`histogram:maxBars`:: Date histograms are not generated with more bars than the value of this property, scaling values
when necessary.
`history:limit`:: In fields that have history, such as query inputs, show this many recent values.
`indexPattern:fieldMapping:lookBack`:: For index patterns containing timestamps in their names, 
look for this many recent matching patterns from which to query the field mapping.
`indexPattern:placeholder`:: The default placeholder value to use in Management > Index Patterns > Create Index Pattern.
`metaFields`:: Fields that exist outside of `_source`. Kibana merges these fields 
into the document when displaying it.
`metrics:max_buckets`:: The maximum numbers of buckets that a single
data source can return. This might arise when the user selects a 
short interval (for example, 1s) for a long time period (1 year).
`query:allowLeadingWildcards`:: Allows a wildcard (*) as the first character 
in a query clause. Only applies when experimental query features are 
enabled in the query bar. To disallow leading wildcards in Lucene queries, 
use `query:queryString:options`.
`query:queryString:options`:: Options for the Lucene query string parser. Only
used when "Query language" is set to Lucene.
`savedObjects:listingLimit`:: The number of objects to fetch for lists of saved objects. 
The default value is 1000. Do not set above 10000.
`savedObjects:perPage`:: The number of objects to show on each page of the 
list of saved objects. The default is 5.
`search:queryLanguage`:: The query language to use in the query bar.
Choices are <<kuery-query, KQL>>, a language built specifically for {kib}, and the <<lucene-query, Lucene 
query syntax>>.
`shortDots:enable`:: Set this property to `true` to shorten long 
field names in visualizations. For example, show `f.b.baz` instead of `foo.bar.baz`.
`sort:options`:: Options for the Elasticsearch {ref}/search-request-body.html#request-body-search-sort[sort] parameter.
`state:storeInSessionStorage`:: [experimental] Kibana tracks UI state in the 
URL, which can lead to problems when there is a lot of state information, 
and the URL gets very long. 
Enabling this setting stores part of the URL in your browser session to keep the 
URL short.
`theme:darkMode`:: Set to `true` to enable a dark mode for the {kib} UI. You must
refresh the page to apply the setting.
`timepicker:quickRanges`:: The list of ranges to show in the Quick section of 
the time filter. This should be an array of objects, with each object containing 
`from`, `to` (see {ref}/common-options.html#date-math[accepted formats]), 
and `display` (the title to be displayed).
`timepicker:refreshIntervalDefaults`:: The default refresh interval for the time filter.
`timepicker:timeDefaults`:: The default selection in the time filter.
`truncate:maxHeight`:: The maximum height that a cell occupies in a table. Set to 0 to disable
truncation.
`xPack:defaultAdminEmail`:: Email address for X-Pack admin operations, such as 
cluster alert notifications from Monitoring.


[float]
[[kibana-accessibility-settings]]
=== Accessibility settings

[horizontal]
`accessibility:disableAnimations`:: Turns off all unnecessary animations in the 
{kib} UI. Refresh the page to apply the changes.

[float]
[[kibana-dashboard-settings]]
=== Dashboard settings

[horizontal]
`xpackDashboardMode:roles`:: The roles that belong to <<xpack-dashboard-only-mode, dashboard only mode>>.

[float]
[[kibana-discover-settings]]
=== Discover settings

[horizontal]
`context:defaultSize`:: The number of surrounding entries to display in the context view. The default value is 5.
`context:step`:: The number by which to increment or decrement the context size. The default value is 5.
`context:tieBreakerFields`:: A comma-separated list of fields to use 
for breaking a tie between documents that have the same timestamp value. The first 
field that is present and sortable in the current index pattern is used.
`defaultColumns`:: The columns that appear by default on the Discover page.
The default is `_source`. 
`discover:aggs:terms:size`:: The number terms that are visualized when clicking 
the Visualize button in the field drop down. The default is `20`.
`discover:sampleSize`:: The number of rows to show in the Discover table.
`discover:sort:defaultOrder`:: The default sort direction for time-based index patterns.
`discover:searchOnPageLoad`:: Controls whether a search is executed when Discover first loads. 
This setting does not have an effect when loading a saved search.
`doc_table:hideTimeColumn`:: Hides the "Time" column in Discover and in all saved searches on dashboards.
`doc_table:highlight`:: Highlights results in Discover and saved searches on dashboards. 
Highlighting slows requests when
working on big documents. 




[float]
[[kibana-notification-settings]]
=== Notifications settings

[horizontal]
`notifications:banner`:: A custom banner intended for temporary notices to all users.
Supports https://help.github.com/en/articles/basic-writing-and-formatting-syntax[Markdown].
`notifications:lifetime:banner`:: The duration, in milliseconds, for banner 
notification displays. The default value is 3000000. Set this field to `Infinity` 
to disable banner notifications.
`notifications:lifetime:error`:: The duration, in milliseconds, for error 
notification displays. The default value is 300000. Set this field to `Infinity` to disable error notifications.
`notifications:lifetime:info`:: The duration, in milliseconds, for information notification displays. 
The default value is 5000. Set this field to `Infinity` to disable information notifications.
`notifications:lifetime:warning`:: The duration, in milliseconds, for warning notification 
displays. The default value is 10000. Set this field to `Infinity` to disable warning notifications.



[float]
[[kibana-reporting-settings]]
=== Reporting settings

[horizontal]
`xpackReporting:customPdfLogo`:: A custom image to use in the footer of the PDF.


[float]
[[kibana-rollups-settings]]
=== Rollup settings

[horizontal]
`rollups:enableIndexPatterns`:: Enables the creation of index patterns that 
capture rollup indices, which in turn enables visualizations based on rollup data. 
Refresh the page to apply the changes.


[float]
[[kibana-search-settings]]
=== Search settings

[horizontal]
`courier:customRequestPreference`:: {ref}/search-request-body.html#request-body-search-preference[Request preference] 
to use when `courier:setRequestPreference` is set to "custom".
`courier:ignoreFilterIfFieldNotInIndex`:: Skips filters that apply to fields that don't exist in the index for a visualization. 
Useful when dashboards consist of visualizations from multiple index patterns.
`courier:maxConcurrentShardRequests`:: Controls the {ref}/search-multi-search.html[max_concurrent_shard_requests] 
setting used for `_msearch` requests sent by {kib}. Set to 0 to disable this 
config and use the {es} default.
`courier:setRequestPreference`:: Enables you to set which shards handle your search requests.
* *Session ID:* Restricts operations to execute all search requests on the same shards. 
This has the benefit of reusing shard caches across requests.
* *Custom:* Allows you to define your own preference. Use `courier:customRequestPreference` 
to customize your preference value.
* *None:* Do not set a preference. This might provide better performance 
because requests can be spread across all shard copies. However, results might 
be inconsistent because different shards might be in different refresh states.
`search:includeFrozen`:: Includes {ref}/frozen-indices.html[frozen indices] in results. 
Searching through frozen indices
might increase the search time. This setting is off by default. Users must opt-in to include frozen indices.

[float]
[[kibana-timelion-settings]]
=== Timelion settings

[horizontal]
`timelion:default_columns`:: The default number of columns to use on a Timelion sheet.
`timelion:default_rows`:: The default number of rows to use on a Timelion sheet.
`timelion:es.default_index`:: The default index when using the `.es()` query.
`timelion:es.timefield`:: The default field containing a timestamp when using the `.es()` query.
`timelion:graphite.url`:: [experimental] Used with graphite queries, this is the URL of your graphite host 
in the form https://www.hostedgraphite.com/UID/ACCESS_KEY/graphite. This URL can be 
selected from a whitelist configured in the `kibana.yml` under `timelion.graphiteUrls`.
`timelion:max_buckets`:: The maximum number of buckets a single data source can return.
This value is used for calculating automatic intervals in visualizations.
`timelion:min_interval`:: The smallest interval to calculate when using "auto".
`timelion:quandl.key`:: [experimental] Used with quandl queries, this is your API key from https://www.quandl.com/[www.quandl.com].
`timelion:showTutorial`:: Shows the Timelion tutorial 
to users when they first open the Timelion app.
`timelion:target_buckets`:: Used for calculating automatic intervals in visualizations, 
this is the number of buckets to try to represent.



[float]
[[kibana-visualization-settings]]
=== Visualization settings

[horizontal]
`visualization:colorMapping`:: Maps values to specified colors in visualizations.
`visualization:dimmingOpacity`:: The opacity of the chart items that are dimmed 
when highlighting another element of the chart. The lower this number, the more 
the highlighted element stands out. This must be a number between 0 and 1.
`visualization:loadingDelay`:: The time to wait before dimming visualizations 
during a query.
`visualization:regionmap:showWarnings`:: Shows 
a warning in a region map when terms cannot be joined to a shape.
`visualization:tileMap:WMSdefaults`:: The default properties for the WMS map server support in the coordinate map.
`visualization:tileMap:maxPrecision`:: The maximum geoHash precision displayed on tile maps: 7 is high, 10 is very high,
and 12 is the maximum. See this 
{ref}/search-aggregations-bucket-geohashgrid-aggregation.html#_cell_dimensions_at_the_equator[explanation of cell dimensions].
`visualize:enableLabs`:: Enables users to create, view, and edit experimental visualizations. 
If disabled, only visualizations that are considered production-ready are available to the user.


[float]
[[kibana-telemetry-settings]]
=== Usage data settings

Helps improve the Elastic Stack by providing usage statistics for 
basic features. This data will not be shared outside of Elastic.

Commit message:

[Docs] [Backport] 7.x siem advanced settings (#46428)
* Add advanced SIEM settings

* Correct description of siem:defaultIndex field

docs/management/advanced-options.asciidoc, after:

[[advanced-options]]
== Setting advanced options

The *Advanced Settings* page enables you to directly edit settings that control the behavior of the Kibana application.
For example, you can change the format used to display dates, specify the default index pattern, and set the precision
for displayed decimal values.

. Go to *Management > {kib} > Advanced Settings*.
. Scroll or search for the setting you want to modify.
. Enter a new value for the setting.

[float]
[[settings-read-only-access]]
=== [xpack]#Read only access#
When you have insufficient privileges to edit advanced settings, the following 
indicator in Kibana will be displayed. The buttons to edit settings won't be visible. 
For more information on granting access to Kibana see <<xpack-security-authorization>>.

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/settings-read-only-badge.png[Example of Advanced Settings Management's read only access indicator in Kibana's header]

[float]
[[kibana-settings-reference]]
=== Kibana settings reference

WARNING: Modifying a setting can affect {kib}
performance and cause problems that are
difficult to diagnose. Setting a property value to a blank field reverts 
to the default behavior, which might not be
compatible with other configuration settings. Deleting a custom setting 
removes it from {kib} permanently.


[float]
[[kibana-general-settings]]
=== General settings

[horizontal]
`csv:quoteValues`:: Set this property to `true` to quote exported values.
`csv:separator`:: A string that serves as the separator for exported values.
`dateFormat`:: The format to use for displaying https://momentjs.com/docs/#/displaying/format/[pretty formatted dates].
`dateFormat:dow`:: The day that a week should start on.
`dateFormat:scaled`:: The values that define the format to use to render ordered time-based data. Formatted timestamps must
adapt to the interval between measurements. Keys are http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_8601#Time_intervals[ISO8601 intervals].
`dateFormat:tz`:: The timezone that Kibana uses. The default value of `Browser` uses the timezone detected by the browser.
`dateNanosFormat`:: The format to use for displaying https://momentjs.com/docs/#/displaying/format/[pretty formatted dates] of {ref}/date_nanos.html[Elasticsearch date_nanos type].
`defaultIndex`:: The index to access if no index is set. The default is `null`. 
`fields:popularLimit`:: The top N most popular fields to show.
`filterEditor:suggestValues`:: Set this property to `false` to prevent the filter editor from suggesting values for fields.
`filters:pinnedByDefault`:: Set this property to `true` to make filters have a global state (be pinned) by default.
`format:bytes:defaultPattern`:: The default http://numeraljs.com/[numeral format] for the "bytes" format.
`format:currency:defaultPattern`:: The default http://numeraljs.com/[numeral format] for the "currency" format.
`format:defaultTypeMap`:: A map of the default format name for each field type. Field types that are not explicitly
mentioned use "\_default_".
`format:number:defaultLocale`:: The http://numeraljs.com/[numeral language] locale.
`format:number:defaultPattern`:: The default http://numeraljs.com/[numeral format] for the "number" format.
`format:percent:defaultPattern`:: The default http://numeraljs.com/[numeral format] for the "percent" format.
`histogram:barTarget`:: When date histograms use the `auto` interval, Kibana attempts to generate this number of bars.
`histogram:maxBars`:: Date histograms are not generated with more bars than the value of this property, scaling values
when necessary.
`history:limit`:: In fields that have history, such as query inputs, show this many recent values.
`indexPattern:fieldMapping:lookBack`:: For index patterns containing timestamps in their names, 
look for this many recent matching patterns from which to query the field mapping.
`indexPattern:placeholder`:: The default placeholder value to use in Management > Index Patterns > Create Index Pattern.
`metaFields`:: Fields that exist outside of `_source`. Kibana merges these fields 
into the document when displaying it.
`metrics:max_buckets`:: The maximum numbers of buckets that a single
data source can return. This might arise when the user selects a 
short interval (for example, 1s) for a long time period (1 year).
`query:allowLeadingWildcards`:: Allows a wildcard (*) as the first character 
in a query clause. Only applies when experimental query features are 
enabled in the query bar. To disallow leading wildcards in Lucene queries, 
use `query:queryString:options`.
`query:queryString:options`:: Options for the Lucene query string parser. Only
used when "Query language" is set to Lucene.
`savedObjects:listingLimit`:: The number of objects to fetch for lists of saved objects. 
The default value is 1000. Do not set above 10000.
`savedObjects:perPage`:: The number of objects to show on each page of the 
list of saved objects. The default is 5.
`search:queryLanguage`:: The query language to use in the query bar.
Choices are <<kuery-query, KQL>>, a language built specifically for {kib}, and the <<lucene-query, Lucene 
query syntax>>.
`shortDots:enable`:: Set this property to `true` to shorten long 
field names in visualizations. For example, show `f.b.baz` instead of `foo.bar.baz`.
`sort:options`:: Options for the Elasticsearch {ref}/search-request-body.html#request-body-search-sort[sort] parameter.
`state:storeInSessionStorage`:: [experimental] Kibana tracks UI state in the 
URL, which can lead to problems when there is a lot of state information, 
and the URL gets very long. 
Enabling this setting stores part of the URL in your browser session to keep the 
URL short.
`theme:darkMode`:: Set to `true` to enable a dark mode for the {kib} UI. You must
refresh the page to apply the setting.
`timepicker:quickRanges`:: The list of ranges to show in the Quick section of 
the time filter. This should be an array of objects, with each object containing 
`from`, `to` (see {ref}/common-options.html#date-math[accepted formats]), 
and `display` (the title to be displayed).
`timepicker:refreshIntervalDefaults`:: The default refresh interval for the time filter.
`timepicker:timeDefaults`:: The default selection in the time filter.
`truncate:maxHeight`:: The maximum height that a cell occupies in a table. Set to 0 to disable
truncation.
`xPack:defaultAdminEmail`:: Email address for X-Pack admin operations, such as 
cluster alert notifications from Monitoring.


[float]
[[kibana-accessibility-settings]]
=== Accessibility settings

[horizontal]
`accessibility:disableAnimations`:: Turns off all unnecessary animations in the 
{kib} UI. Refresh the page to apply the changes.

[float]
[[kibana-dashboard-settings]]
=== Dashboard settings

[horizontal]
`xpackDashboardMode:roles`:: The roles that belong to <<xpack-dashboard-only-mode, dashboard only mode>>.

[float]
[[kibana-discover-settings]]
=== Discover settings

[horizontal]
`context:defaultSize`:: The number of surrounding entries to display in the context view. The default value is 5.
`context:step`:: The number by which to increment or decrement the context size. The default value is 5.
`context:tieBreakerFields`:: A comma-separated list of fields to use 
for breaking a tie between documents that have the same timestamp value. The first 
field that is present and sortable in the current index pattern is used.
`defaultColumns`:: The columns that appear by default on the Discover page.
The default is `_source`. 
`discover:aggs:terms:size`:: The number terms that are visualized when clicking 
the Visualize button in the field drop down. The default is `20`.
`discover:sampleSize`:: The number of rows to show in the Discover table.
`discover:sort:defaultOrder`:: The default sort direction for time-based index patterns.
`discover:searchOnPageLoad`:: Controls whether a search is executed when Discover first loads. 
This setting does not have an effect when loading a saved search.
`doc_table:hideTimeColumn`:: Hides the "Time" column in Discover and in all saved searches on dashboards.
`doc_table:highlight`:: Highlights results in Discover and saved searches on dashboards. 
Highlighting slows requests when
working on big documents. 




[float]
[[kibana-notification-settings]]
=== Notifications settings

[horizontal]
`notifications:banner`:: A custom banner intended for temporary notices to all users.
Supports https://help.github.com/en/articles/basic-writing-and-formatting-syntax[Markdown].
`notifications:lifetime:banner`:: The duration, in milliseconds, for banner 
notification displays. The default value is 3000000. Set this field to `Infinity` 
to disable banner notifications.
`notifications:lifetime:error`:: The duration, in milliseconds, for error 
notification displays. The default value is 300000. Set this field to `Infinity` to disable error notifications.
`notifications:lifetime:info`:: The duration, in milliseconds, for information notification displays. 
The default value is 5000. Set this field to `Infinity` to disable information notifications.
`notifications:lifetime:warning`:: The duration, in milliseconds, for warning notification 
displays. The default value is 10000. Set this field to `Infinity` to disable warning notifications.



[float]
[[kibana-reporting-settings]]
=== Reporting settings

[horizontal]
`xpackReporting:customPdfLogo`:: A custom image to use in the footer of the PDF.


[float]
[[kibana-rollups-settings]]
=== Rollup settings

[horizontal]
`rollups:enableIndexPatterns`:: Enables the creation of index patterns that 
capture rollup indices, which in turn enables visualizations based on rollup data. 
Refresh the page to apply the changes.


[float]
[[kibana-search-settings]]
=== Search settings

[horizontal]
`courier:customRequestPreference`:: {ref}/search-request-body.html#request-body-search-preference[Request preference] 
to use when `courier:setRequestPreference` is set to "custom".
`courier:ignoreFilterIfFieldNotInIndex`:: Skips filters that apply to fields that don't exist in the index for a visualization. 
Useful when dashboards consist of visualizations from multiple index patterns.
`courier:maxConcurrentShardRequests`:: Controls the {ref}/search-multi-search.html[max_concurrent_shard_requests] 
setting used for `_msearch` requests sent by {kib}. Set to 0 to disable this 
config and use the {es} default.
`courier:setRequestPreference`:: Enables you to set which shards handle your search requests.
* *Session ID:* Restricts operations to execute all search requests on the same shards. 
This has the benefit of reusing shard caches across requests.
* *Custom:* Allows you to define your own preference. Use `courier:customRequestPreference` 
to customize your preference value.
* *None:* Do not set a preference. This might provide better performance 
because requests can be spread across all shard copies. However, results might 
be inconsistent because different shards might be in different refresh states.
`search:includeFrozen`:: Includes {ref}/frozen-indices.html[frozen indices] in results. 
Searching through frozen indices
might increase the search time. This setting is off by default. Users must opt-in to include frozen indices.

[float]
[[kibana-siem-settings]]
=== SIEM settings

[horizontal]
`siem:defaultAnomalyScore`:: The threshold above which anomalies are displayed in the SIEM app.
`siem:defaultIndex`:: A comma-delimited list of Elasticsearch indices from which the SIEM app collects events. 
`siem:refreshIntervalDefaults`:: The default refresh interval for the SIEM time filter, in milliseconds.
`siem:timeDefaults`:: The default period of time in the SIEM time filter.

[float]
[[kibana-timelion-settings]]
=== Timelion settings

[horizontal]
`timelion:default_columns`:: The default number of columns to use on a Timelion sheet.
`timelion:default_rows`:: The default number of rows to use on a Timelion sheet.
`timelion:es.default_index`:: The default index when using the `.es()` query.
`timelion:es.timefield`:: The default field containing a timestamp when using the `.es()` query.
`timelion:graphite.url`:: [experimental] Used with graphite queries, this is the URL of your graphite host 
in the form https://www.hostedgraphite.com/UID/ACCESS_KEY/graphite. This URL can be 
selected from a whitelist configured in the `kibana.yml` under `timelion.graphiteUrls`.
`timelion:max_buckets`:: The maximum number of buckets a single data source can return.
This value is used for calculating automatic intervals in visualizations.
`timelion:min_interval`:: The smallest interval to calculate when using "auto".
`timelion:quandl.key`:: [experimental] Used with quandl queries, this is your API key from https://www.quandl.com/[www.quandl.com].
`timelion:showTutorial`:: Shows the Timelion tutorial 
to users when they first open the Timelion app.
`timelion:target_buckets`:: Used for calculating automatic intervals in visualizations, 
this is the number of buckets to try to represent.



[float]
[[kibana-visualization-settings]]
=== Visualization settings

[horizontal]
`visualization:colorMapping`:: Maps values to specified colors in visualizations.
`visualization:dimmingOpacity`:: The opacity of the chart items that are dimmed 
when highlighting another element of the chart. The lower this number, the more 
the highlighted element stands out. This must be a number between 0 and 1.
`visualization:loadingDelay`:: The time to wait before dimming visualizations 
during a query.
`visualization:regionmap:showWarnings`:: Shows 
a warning in a region map when terms cannot be joined to a shape.
`visualization:tileMap:WMSdefaults`:: The default properties for the WMS map server support in the coordinate map.
`visualization:tileMap:maxPrecision`:: The maximum geoHash precision displayed on tile maps: 7 is high, 10 is very high,
and 12 is the maximum. See this 
{ref}/search-aggregations-bucket-geohashgrid-aggregation.html#_cell_dimensions_at_the_equator[explanation of cell dimensions].
`visualize:enableLabs`:: Enables users to create, view, and edit experimental visualizations. 
If disabled, only visualizations that are considered production-ready are available to the user.


[float]
[[kibana-telemetry-settings]]
=== Usage data settings

Helps improve the Elastic Stack by providing usage statistics for 
basic features. This data will not be shared outside of Elastic.
