docs/management/index-patterns.asciidoc, before:

[[index-patterns]]
== Index patterns

To visualize and explore data in {kib}, you must create an index pattern. 
An index pattern tells {kib} which {es} indices contain the data that you want to work with. 
An index pattern can match a single index, multiple indices, and a rollup index. 

[float]
[[index-patterns-read-only-access]]
=== [xpack]#Read-only access#
If you have insufficient privileges to create or save index patterns, a read-only 
indicator appears in Kibana. The buttons to create new index patterns or save
existing index patterns are not visible. For more information on granting access to
Kibana see <<xpack-security-authorization>>.

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/management-index-read-only-badge.png[Example of Index Pattern Management's read only access indicator in Kibana's header]

[float]
[[settings-create-pattern]]
=== Create an index pattern

To get started, go to *Management > Kibana > Index Patterns*.  You begin with
an overview of your index patterns, including any that were added when you 
downloaded sample data sets. 

You can create a standard index pattern, and if a rollup index is detected in the 
cluster, a rollup index pattern.

[role="screenshot"]
image:management/index-patterns/images/rollup-index-pattern.png["Menu with rollup index pattern"]

[float]
==== Standard index pattern

{kib} makes it easy for you to create an index pattern by walking you through 
the process. Just start typing in the *Index pattern* field, and {kib} looks for 
the names of {es} indices that match your input. If you want to include 
system indices in your search, toggle the switch in the upper right.

[role="screenshot"]
image:management/index-patterns/images/create-index-pattern.png["Create index pattern"]

Your index pattern can match multiple {es} indices.  
Use a comma to separate the names, with no space after the comma. The notation for 
wildcards (`*`) and the ability to "exclude" (`-`) also apply 
(for example, `test*,-test3`).

When {kib} detects an index with a timestamp, you’re asked to choose a field to 
filter your data by time. If you don’t specify a field, you won’t be able 
to use the time filter.

Once you’ve created your index pattern, you can start working with 
your {es} data in {kib}.  Here are some things to try:

* Interactively explore your data in <<discover, Discover>>.
* Present your data in charts, tables, gauges, tag clouds, and more in <<visualize, Visualize>>.
* Show off your data in a <<canvas, Canvas>> presentation.
* If your data includes geo data, visualize it using <<maps, Maps>>.

For a walkthrough of creating an index pattern and visualizing the data, 
see <<getting-started, Getting Started>>. 

[float]
==== Rollup index pattern

If a rollup index is detected in the cluster, clicking *Create index pattern* 
includes an item for creating a rollup index pattern. You create an 
index pattern for rolled up data the same way you do for any data.  

You can match an index pattern to only rolled up data, or mix both rolled 
up and raw data to visualize all data together. An index pattern can match 
only one rollup index, not multiple. There is no restriction on the 
number of standard indices that an index pattern can match.

See <<visualize-rollup-data, Creating a visualization using rolled up data>> 
for more detailed information.

[float]
=== Manage your index pattern

Once you’ve created an index pattern, you’re presented a table of all fields 
and associated data types in the index. 

[role="screenshot"]
image:management/index-patterns/images/new-index-pattern.png["Index files and data types"]

You can perform the following actions:

* *Manage the index fields.* Click a column header to sort the table by that column. 
Use the field dropdown menu to limit to display to a specific field. 
See <<managing-fields, Managing fields>> for more detailed information. 

* [[set-default-pattern]]*Set the default index pattern.* {kib} uses a badge to make users 
aware of which index pattern is the default. The first pattern 
you create is automatically designated as the default pattern. The default 
index pattern is loaded when you view the Discover tab.  

* [[reload-fields]]*Reload the index fields list.* You can reload the index fields list to 
pick up any newly-added fields. Doing so also resets Kibana’s popularity counters 
for the fields. The popularity counters keep track of the fields 
you’ve used most often in {kib} and are used to sort fields in lists.

* [[delete-pattern]]*Delete the index pattern.* This action removes the pattern from the list of 
Saved Objects in {kib}. You will not be able to recover field formatters, 
scripted fields, source filters, and field popularity data associated with the index pattern.
+
Deleting an index pattern breaks all visualizations, saved searches, and 
other saved objects that reference the pattern. Deleting an index pattern does 
not remove any indices or data documents from {es}.

include::index-patterns/management-cross-cluster-search.asciidoc[]

Commit message:

[DOCS] Added content for unique index pattern name

docs/management/index-patterns.asciidoc, after:

[[index-patterns]]
== Index patterns

To visualize and explore data in {kib}, you must create an index pattern. 
An index pattern tells {kib} which {es} indices contain the data that you want to work with. 
An index pattern can match a single index, multiple indices, and a rollup index. 

[float]
[[index-patterns-read-only-access]]
=== [xpack]#Read-only access#
If you have insufficient privileges to create or save index patterns, a read-only 
indicator appears in Kibana. The buttons to create new index patterns or save
existing index patterns are not visible. For more information on granting access to
Kibana see <<xpack-security-authorization>>.

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/management-index-read-only-badge.png[Example of Index Pattern Management's read only access indicator in Kibana's header]

[float]
[[settings-create-pattern]]
=== Create an index pattern

To get started, go to *Management > Kibana > Index Patterns*.  You begin with
an overview of your index patterns, including any that were added when you 
downloaded sample data sets. 

You can create a standard index pattern, and if a rollup index is detected in the 
cluster, a rollup index pattern.

[role="screenshot"]
image:management/index-patterns/images/rollup-index-pattern.png["Menu with rollup index pattern"]

[float]
==== Standard index pattern

{kib} makes it easy for you to create an index pattern by walking you through 
the process. Just start typing in the *Index pattern* field, and {kib} looks for 
the names of {es} indices that match your input. Make sure that the name of the 
index pattern is unique.

If you want to include system indices in your search, toggle the switch in the 
upper right.

[role="screenshot"]
image:management/index-patterns/images/create-index-pattern.png["Create index pattern"]

Your index pattern can match multiple {es} indices.  
Use a comma to separate the names, with no space after the comma. The notation for 
wildcards (`*`) and the ability to "exclude" (`-`) also apply 
(for example, `test*,-test3`).

When {kib} detects an index with a timestamp, you’re asked to choose a field to 
filter your data by time. If you don’t specify a field, you won’t be able 
to use the time filter.

Once you’ve created your index pattern, you can start working with 
your {es} data in {kib}.  Here are some things to try:

* Interactively explore your data in <<discover, Discover>>.
* Present your data in charts, tables, gauges, tag clouds, and more in <<visualize, Visualize>>.
* Show off your data in a <<canvas, Canvas>> presentation.
* If your data includes geo data, visualize it using <<maps, Maps>>.

For a walkthrough of creating an index pattern and visualizing the data, 
see <<getting-started, Getting Started>>. 

[float]
==== Rollup index pattern

If a rollup index is detected in the cluster, clicking *Create index pattern* 
includes an item for creating a rollup index pattern. You create an 
index pattern for rolled up data the same way you do for any data.  

You can match an index pattern to only rolled up data, or mix both rolled 
up and raw data to visualize all data together. An index pattern can match 
only one rollup index, not multiple. There is no restriction on the 
number of standard indices that an index pattern can match.

See <<visualize-rollup-data, Creating a visualization using rolled up data>> 
for more detailed information.

[float]
=== Manage your index pattern

Once you’ve created an index pattern, you’re presented a table of all fields 
and associated data types in the index. 

[role="screenshot"]
image:management/index-patterns/images/new-index-pattern.png["Index files and data types"]

You can perform the following actions:

* *Manage the index fields.* Click a column header to sort the table by that column. 
Use the field dropdown menu to limit to display to a specific field. 
See <<managing-fields, Managing fields>> for more detailed information. 

* [[set-default-pattern]]*Set the default index pattern.* {kib} uses a badge to make users 
aware of which index pattern is the default. The first pattern 
you create is automatically designated as the default pattern. The default 
index pattern is loaded when you view the Discover tab.  

* [[reload-fields]]*Reload the index fields list.* You can reload the index fields list to 
pick up any newly-added fields. Doing so also resets Kibana’s popularity counters 
for the fields. The popularity counters keep track of the fields 
you’ve used most often in {kib} and are used to sort fields in lists.

* [[delete-pattern]]*Delete the index pattern.* This action removes the pattern from the list of 
Saved Objects in {kib}. You will not be able to recover field formatters, 
scripted fields, source filters, and field popularity data associated with the index pattern.
+
Deleting an index pattern breaks all visualizations, saved searches, and 
other saved objects that reference the pattern. Deleting an index pattern does 
not remove any indices or data documents from {es}.

include::index-patterns/management-cross-cluster-search.asciidoc[]
