docs/management/managing-fields.asciidoc, before:

[[managing-fields]]
== Index patterns and fields

The *Index patterns* UI helps you create and manage
the index patterns that retrieve your data from {es}.

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/management-index-patterns.png[]

[float]
=== Create an index pattern

An index pattern is the glue that connects {kib} to your {es} data. Create an
index pattern whenever you load your own data into {kib}. To get started,
click *Create index pattern*, and then follow the guided steps. Refer to
<<index-patterns, Creating an index pattern>> for the types of index patterns
that you can create.

[float]
=== Manage your index pattern

To view the fields and associated data types in an index pattern, click its name in
the *Index patterns* overview.

[role="screenshot"]
image::management/index-patterns/images/new-index-pattern.png["Index files and data types"]

Use the icons to perform the following actions:

* [[set-default-pattern]]*Set the default index pattern.* {kib} uses a badge to make users
aware of which index pattern is the default. The first pattern
you create is automatically designated as the default pattern. The default
index pattern is loaded when you open *Discover*.

* *Refresh the index fields list.* You can refresh the index fields list to
pick up any newly-added fields. Doing so also resets the {kib} popularity counters
for the fields. The popularity counters are used in *Discover* to sort fields in lists.

* [[delete-pattern]]*Delete the index pattern.* This action removes the pattern from the list of
Saved Objects in {kib}. You will not be able to recover field formatters,
scripted fields, source filters, and field popularity data associated with the index pattern.
Deleting an index pattern does
not remove any indices or data documents from {es}.
+
WARNING: Deleting an index pattern breaks all visualizations, saved searches, and
other saved objects that reference the pattern.

[float]
=== Edit a field

To edit a field's properties, click the edit icon
image:management/index-patterns/images/edit_icon.png[] in the detail view.
You can set the field's format and popularity value.

Kibana has field formatters for the following field types:

* <<field-formatters-string, Strings>>
* <<field-formatters-date, Dates>>
* <<field-formatters-geopoint, Geopoints>>
* <<field-formatters-numeric, Numbers>>

[[field-formatters-string]]
=== String field formatters

String fields support the `String` and `Url` formatters.

include::field-formatters/string-formatter.asciidoc[]

include::field-formatters/url-formatter.asciidoc[]

[[field-formatters-date]]
=== Date field formatters

Date fields support the `Date`, `Url`, and `String` formatters.

The `Date` formatter enables you to choose the display format of date stamps using the https://momentjs.com/[moment.js]
standard format definitions.

include::field-formatters/string-formatter.asciidoc[]

include::field-formatters/url-formatter.asciidoc[]

[[field-formatters-geopoint]]
=== Geographic point field formatters

Geographic point fields support the `String` formatter.

include::field-formatters/string-formatter.asciidoc[]

[[field-formatters-numeric]]
=== Numeric field formatters

Numeric fields support the `Url`, `Bytes`, `Duration`, `Number`, `Percentage`, `String`, and `Color` formatters.

The `Bytes`, `Number`, and `Percentage` formatters enable you to choose the display formats of numbers in this field using
the <<numeral, Elastic numeral pattern>> syntax that {kib} maintains.

include::field-formatters/url-formatter.asciidoc[]

include::field-formatters/string-formatter.asciidoc[]

include::field-formatters/duration-formatter.asciidoc[]

include::field-formatters/color-formatter.asciidoc[]

[[scripted-fields]]
=== Scripted fields

Scripted fields compute data on the fly from the data in your {es} indices. The data is shown on
the Discover tab as part of the document data, and you can use scripted fields in your visualizations. You query scripted fields with the <<kuery-query, {kib} query language>>, and can filter them using the filter bar. The scripted field values are computed at query time, so they aren't indexed and cannot be searched using the {kib} default
query language.

WARNING: Computing data on the fly with scripted fields can be very resource intensive and can have a direct impact on
{kib} performance. Keep in mind that there's no built-in validation of a scripted field. If your scripts are
buggy, you'll get exceptions whenever you try to view the dynamically generated data.

When you define a scripted field in {kib}, you have a choice of scripting languages. In 5.0 and later, the default
options are {ref}/modules-scripting-expression.html[Lucene expressions] and {ref}/modules-scripting-painless.html[Painless].
While you can use other scripting languages if you enable dynamic scripting for them in {es}, this is not recommended
because they cannot be sufficiently {ref}/modules-scripting-security.html[sandboxed].

WARNING: In 5.0 and later, Groovy, JavaScript, and Python scripting are deprecated and unsupported.

You can reference any single value numeric field in your expressions, for example:

----
doc['field_name'].value
----

For more information on scripted fields and additional examples, refer to
https://www.elastic.co/blog/using-painless-kibana-scripted-fields[Using Painless in {kib} scripted fields]

[float]
[[create-scripted-field]]
=== Create a scripted field

. Open the main menu, then click *Stack Management > Index Patterns*.
. Select the index pattern you want to add a scripted field to.
. Go to the *Scripted fields* tab for the index pattern, then click *Add scripted field*.
. Enter a name for the scripted field.
. Enter the expression that you want to use to compute a value on the fly from your index data.
. Click *Create field*.

For more information about scripted fields in {es}, see
{ref}/modules-scripting.html[Scripting].

[float]
[[update-scripted-field]]
=== Update a scripted field

. Click the *Scripted fields* tab for the index pattern.
. Click the *Edit* button for the scripted field you want to change.
. Make your changes, then click *Save field*.

WARNING: Built-in validation is unsupported for scripted fields. If your scripts are buggy, you'll get
exceptions whenever you try to view the dynamically generated data.

[float]
[[delete-scripted-field]]
=== Delete a scripted field

. Click the *Scripted fields* tab for the index pattern.
. Click *Delete* for the scripted field you want to remove.
. Click *Delete* on the confirmation window.

Commit message:

[7.x] Doc changes for stack management and grouped feature privileges (#80486) (#81795)
Co-authored-by: Kaarina Tungseth <kaarina.tungseth@elastic.co>
Co-authored-by: gchaps <33642766+gchaps@users.noreply.github.com>
# Conflicts:
#	docs/images/intro-spaces.jpg

docs/management/managing-fields.asciidoc, after:

[[managing-fields]]
== Index patterns and fields

The *Index patterns* UI helps you create and manage
the index patterns that retrieve your data from {es}.

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/management-index-patterns.png[]

[float]
=== Required permissions

The `Index Pattern Management` {kib} privilege is required to access the *Index patterns* UI.

To add the privilege, open the menu, then click *Stack Management > Roles*.

[float]
=== Create an index pattern

An index pattern is the glue that connects {kib} to your {es} data. Create an
index pattern whenever you load your own data into {kib}. To get started,
click *Create index pattern*, and then follow the guided steps. Refer to
<<index-patterns, Creating an index pattern>> for the types of index patterns
that you can create.

[float]
=== Manage your index pattern

To view the fields and associated data types in an index pattern, click its name in
the *Index patterns* overview.

[role="screenshot"]
image::management/index-patterns/images/new-index-pattern.png["Index files and data types"]

Use the icons to perform the following actions:

* [[set-default-pattern]]*Set the default index pattern.* {kib} uses a badge to make users
aware of which index pattern is the default. The first pattern
you create is automatically designated as the default pattern. The default
index pattern is loaded when you open *Discover*.

* *Refresh the index fields list.* You can refresh the index fields list to
pick up any newly-added fields. Doing so also resets the {kib} popularity counters
for the fields. The popularity counters are used in *Discover* to sort fields in lists.

* [[delete-pattern]]*Delete the index pattern.* This action removes the pattern from the list of
Saved Objects in {kib}. You will not be able to recover field formatters,
scripted fields, source filters, and field popularity data associated with the index pattern.
Deleting an index pattern does
not remove any indices or data documents from {es}.
+
WARNING: Deleting an index pattern breaks all visualizations, saved searches, and
other saved objects that reference the pattern.

[float]
=== Edit a field

To edit a field's properties, click the edit icon
image:management/index-patterns/images/edit_icon.png[] in the detail view.
You can set the field's format and popularity value.

Kibana has field formatters for the following field types:

* <<field-formatters-string, Strings>>
* <<field-formatters-date, Dates>>
* <<field-formatters-geopoint, Geopoints>>
* <<field-formatters-numeric, Numbers>>

[[field-formatters-string]]
=== String field formatters

String fields support the `String` and `Url` formatters.

include::field-formatters/string-formatter.asciidoc[]

include::field-formatters/url-formatter.asciidoc[]

[[field-formatters-date]]
=== Date field formatters

Date fields support the `Date`, `Url`, and `String` formatters.

The `Date` formatter enables you to choose the display format of date stamps using the https://momentjs.com/[moment.js]
standard format definitions.

include::field-formatters/string-formatter.asciidoc[]

include::field-formatters/url-formatter.asciidoc[]

[[field-formatters-geopoint]]
=== Geographic point field formatters

Geographic point fields support the `String` formatter.

include::field-formatters/string-formatter.asciidoc[]

[[field-formatters-numeric]]
=== Numeric field formatters

Numeric fields support the `Url`, `Bytes`, `Duration`, `Number`, `Percentage`, `String`, and `Color` formatters.

The `Bytes`, `Number`, and `Percentage` formatters enable you to choose the display formats of numbers in this field using
the <<numeral, Elastic numeral pattern>> syntax that {kib} maintains.

include::field-formatters/url-formatter.asciidoc[]

include::field-formatters/string-formatter.asciidoc[]

include::field-formatters/duration-formatter.asciidoc[]

include::field-formatters/color-formatter.asciidoc[]

[[scripted-fields]]
=== Scripted fields

Scripted fields compute data on the fly from the data in your {es} indices. The data is shown on
the Discover tab as part of the document data, and you can use scripted fields in your visualizations. You query scripted fields with the <<kuery-query, {kib} query language>>, and can filter them using the filter bar. The scripted field values are computed at query time, so they aren't indexed and cannot be searched using the {kib} default
query language.

WARNING: Computing data on the fly with scripted fields can be very resource intensive and can have a direct impact on
{kib} performance. Keep in mind that there's no built-in validation of a scripted field. If your scripts are
buggy, you'll get exceptions whenever you try to view the dynamically generated data.

When you define a scripted field in {kib}, you have a choice of scripting languages. In 5.0 and later, the default
options are {ref}/modules-scripting-expression.html[Lucene expressions] and {ref}/modules-scripting-painless.html[Painless].
While you can use other scripting languages if you enable dynamic scripting for them in {es}, this is not recommended
because they cannot be sufficiently {ref}/modules-scripting-security.html[sandboxed].

WARNING: In 5.0 and later, Groovy, JavaScript, and Python scripting are deprecated and unsupported.

You can reference any single value numeric field in your expressions, for example:

----
doc['field_name'].value
----

For more information on scripted fields and additional examples, refer to
https://www.elastic.co/blog/using-painless-kibana-scripted-fields[Using Painless in {kib} scripted fields]

[float]
[[create-scripted-field]]
=== Create a scripted field

. Open the main menu, then click *Stack Management > Index Patterns*.
. Select the index pattern you want to add a scripted field to.
. Go to the *Scripted fields* tab for the index pattern, then click *Add scripted field*.
. Enter a name for the scripted field.
. Enter the expression that you want to use to compute a value on the fly from your index data.
. Click *Create field*.

For more information about scripted fields in {es}, see
{ref}/modules-scripting.html[Scripting].

[float]
[[update-scripted-field]]
=== Update a scripted field

. Click the *Scripted fields* tab for the index pattern.
. Click the *Edit* button for the scripted field you want to change.
. Make your changes, then click *Save field*.

WARNING: Built-in validation is unsupported for scripted fields. If your scripts are buggy, you'll get
exceptions whenever you try to view the dynamically generated data.

[float]
[[delete-scripted-field]]
=== Delete a scripted field

. Click the *Scripted fields* tab for the index pattern.
. Click *Delete* for the scripted field you want to remove.
. Click *Delete* on the confirmation window.
