docs/management/cases/add-connectors.asciidoc, before:

[[add-case-connectors]]
== Add connectors

preview::[]

You can add connectors to cases to push information to these external incident
management systems:

* {ibm-r}
* {jira}
* {sn-itsm}
* {sn-sir}
* {swimlane}
* {webhook-cm}

NOTE: To create connectors and send cases to external systems, you must have the
appropriate {kib} feature privileges. Refer to <<setup-cases>>.

[discrete]
[[create-case-connectors]]
== Create connectors

You can create connectors in *{stack-manage-app} > {connectors-ui}*,
as described in <<action-types>>. Alternatively, you can create them in
*{stack-manage-app} > Cases*:

. Click *Edit external connection*.
+
[role="screenshot"]
image::images/cases-connectors.png[]

. From the *Incident management system* list, select *Add new connector*.

. Select an external incident management system.

. Enter your required settings. Refer to <<resilient-action-type>>,
<<jira-action-type>>, <<servicenow-action-type>>, <<servicenow-sir-action-type>>,
<<swimlane-action-type>>, or <<cases-webhook-action-type>> for connector
configuration details.

. Click *Save*.

[discrete]
[[edit-case-connector-settings]]
== Edit connector settings

You can create additional connectors, update existing connectors, change
the default connector, and change case closure options.

. Go to *{stack-manage-app} > Cases*, click *Edit external connection*.

. To change whether cases are automatically closed after they are sent to an
external system, update the case closure options.

. To change the default connector for new cases, select the connector from the
*Incident management system* list.

. To update a connector, click *Update <connector name>* and edit the connector
fields as required.

Commit message:

[8.6] [DOCS] Automate screenshot for case connectors (#149178) (#149265)
# Backport

This will backport the following commits from `main` to `8.6`:
- [[DOCS] Automate screenshot for case connectors
(#149178)](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/149178)

<!--- Backport version: 8.9.7 -->

### Questions ?
Please refer to the [Backport tool
documentation](https://github.com/sqren/backport)

<!--BACKPORT [{"author":{"name":"Lisa
Cawley","email":"lcawley@elastic.co"},"sourceCommit":{"committedDate":"2023-01-19T20:55:41Z","message":"[DOCS]
Automate screenshot for case connectors
(#149178)","sha":"7e4f21c73f58146b9216bf69105d8620bdf8eab1","branchLabelMapping":{"^v8.7.0$":"main","^v(\\d+).(\\d+).\\d+$":"$1.$2"}},"sourcePullRequest":{"labels":["release_note:skip","Team:ResponseOps","docs","Feature:Cases","backport:prev-minor","v8.7.0"],"number":149178,"url":"https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/149178","mergeCommit":{"message":"[DOCS]
Automate screenshot for case connectors
(#149178)","sha":"7e4f21c73f58146b9216bf69105d8620bdf8eab1"}},"sourceBranch":"main","suggestedTargetBranches":[],"targetPullRequestStates":[{"branch":"main","label":"v8.7.0","labelRegex":"^v8.7.0$","isSourceBranch":true,"state":"MERGED","url":"https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/149178","number":149178,"mergeCommit":{"message":"[DOCS]
Automate screenshot for case connectors
(#149178)","sha":"7e4f21c73f58146b9216bf69105d8620bdf8eab1"}}]}]
BACKPORT-->

Co-authored-by: Lisa Cawley <lcawley@elastic.co>

docs/management/cases/add-connectors.asciidoc, after:

[[add-case-connectors]]
== Add connectors

preview::[]

You can add connectors to cases to push information to these external incident
management systems:

* {ibm-r}
* {jira}
* {sn-itsm}
* {sn-sir}
* {swimlane}
* {webhook-cm}

NOTE: To create connectors and send cases to external systems, you must have the
appropriate {kib} feature privileges. Refer to <<setup-cases>>.

[discrete]
[[create-case-connectors]]
== Create connectors

You can create connectors in *{stack-manage-app} > {connectors-ui}*,
as described in <<action-types>>. Alternatively, you can create them in
*{stack-manage-app} > Cases*:

. Click *Edit external connection*.
+
--
[role="screenshot"]
image::images/cases-connectors.png[]
// NOTE: This is an autogenerated screenshot. Do not edit it directly.
--

. From the *Incident management system* list, select *Add new connector*.

. Select an external incident management system.

. Enter your required settings. Refer to <<resilient-action-type>>,
<<jira-action-type>>, <<servicenow-action-type>>, <<servicenow-sir-action-type>>,
<<swimlane-action-type>>, or <<cases-webhook-action-type>> for connector
configuration details.

. Click *Save*.

[discrete]
[[edit-case-connector-settings]]
== Edit connector settings

You can create additional connectors, update existing connectors, change
the default connector, and change case closure options.

. Go to *{stack-manage-app} > Cases*, click *Edit external connection*.

. To change whether cases are automatically closed after they are sent to an
external system, update the case closure options.

. To change the default connector for new cases, select the connector from the
*Incident management system* list.

. To update a connector, click *Update <connector name>* and edit the connector
fields as required.
