docs/management/cases/manage-cases.asciidoc, before:

[[manage-cases]]
== Open and manage cases

preview::[]

[[open-case]]
=== Open a new case

Open a new case to keep track of issues and share their details with colleagues.

. Go to *Management > {stack-manage-app} > Cases*, then click *Create case*.

. Give the case a name, severity, and description.
+
TIP: In the `Description` area, you can use
https://www.markdownguide.org/cheat-sheet[Markdown] syntax to create formatted
text.

. Optionally, add assignees and tags. You can add users only if they meet
the necessary <<setup-cases,prerequisites>>.

. For *External incident management system*, select a connector. For more
information, refer to <<add-case-connectors>>.

. After you've completed all of the required fields, click *Create case*.

[[add-case-visualization]]
=== Add a visualization

After you create a case, you can optionally add a visualization. For
example, you can portray event and alert data through charts and graphs.

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/cases-visualization.png[Cases page]

To add a visualization to a comment within your case:

. Click the *Visualization* button. The *Add visualization* dialog appears.

. Select an existing visualization from your Visualize Library or create a new
visualization.
+
IMPORTANT: Set an absolute time range for your visualization. This ensures your
visualization doesn't change over time after you save it to your case and
provides important context for viewers.

. After you've finished creating your visualization, click *Save and return* to
go back to your case.

. Click *Preview* to see how the visualization will appear in the case comment.

. Click *Add Comment* to add the visualization to your case.

After a visualization has been added to a case, you can modify or interact with
it by clicking the *Open Visualization* option in the comment menu.

[[add-case-notifications]]
=== Add email notifications

// tag::case-notifications[]
You can configure email notifications that occur when users are assigned to
cases.

For hosted {kib} on {ess}:

. Add the email addresses to the monitoring email allowlist. Follow the steps in
{cloud}/ec-watcher.html#ec-watcher-allowlist[Send alerts by email].
+
--
You do not need to take any more steps to configure an email connector or update
{kib} user settings, since the preconfigured Elastic-Cloud-SMTP connector is
used by default.
--

For self-managed {kib}:

. Create a preconfigured email connector.
+
--
NOTE: At this time, email notifications support only preconfigured connectors,
which are defined in the `kibana.yml` file. For examples, refer to
{kibana-ref}/email-action-type.html#preconfigured-email-configuration[Preconfigured email connector]
and {kibana-ref}/email-action-type.html#configuring-email[Configuring email connectors for well-known services].
--
. Set the `notifications.connectors.default.email` {kib} setting to the name of
your email connector.
. If you want the email notifications to contain links back to the case, you
must configure the {kibana-ref}/settings.html#server-publicBaseUrl[server.publicBaseUrl] setting.

When you subsequently add assignees to cases, they receive an email.
// end::case-notifications[]

[[manage-case]]
=== Manage cases

In *Management > {stack-manage-app} > Cases*, you can search cases and filter
them by attributes such as assignees, severity, status, and tags. You can also
select multiple cases and use bulk actions to delete cases or change their
attributes.

To view a case, click on its name. You can then:

* Add a new comment.
* Edit existing comments and the description.
* Add or remove assignees.
* Add a connector.
* Send updates to external systems (if external connections are configured).
* Edit tags.
* Refresh the case to retrieve the latest updates.
* Change the status.
* Change the severity.
* Close or delete the case.
* Reopen a closed case.

Commit message:

[DOCS] Automate screenshot for case connectors

docs/management/cases/manage-cases.asciidoc, after:

[[manage-cases]]
== Open and manage cases

preview::[]

[[open-case]]
=== Open a new case

Open a new case to keep track of issues and share their details with colleagues.

. Go to *Management > {stack-manage-app} > Cases*, then click *Create case*.

. Give the case a name, severity, and description.
+
TIP: In the `Description` area, you can use
https://www.markdownguide.org/cheat-sheet[Markdown] syntax to create formatted
text.

. Optionally, add assignees and tags. You can add users only if they meet
the necessary <<setup-cases,prerequisites>>.

. For *External incident management system*, select a connector. For more
information, refer to <<add-case-connectors>>.

. After you've completed all of the required fields, click *Create case*.

[[add-case-visualization]]
=== Add a visualization

After you create a case, you can optionally add a visualization. For
example, you can portray event and alert data through charts and graphs.

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/cases-visualization.png[Cases page]
// NOTE: This is an autogenerated screenshot. Do not edit it directly.

To add a visualization to a comment within your case:

. Click the *Visualization* button. The *Add visualization* dialog appears.

. Select an existing visualization from your Visualize Library or create a new
visualization.
+
IMPORTANT: Set an absolute time range for your visualization. This ensures your
visualization doesn't change over time after you save it to your case and
provides important context for viewers.

. After you've finished creating your visualization, click *Save and return* to
go back to your case.

. Click *Preview* to see how the visualization will appear in the case comment.

. Click *Add Comment* to add the visualization to your case.

After a visualization has been added to a case, you can modify or interact with
it by clicking the *Open Visualization* option in the comment menu.

[[add-case-notifications]]
=== Add email notifications

// tag::case-notifications[]
You can configure email notifications that occur when users are assigned to
cases.

For hosted {kib} on {ess}:

. Add the email addresses to the monitoring email allowlist. Follow the steps in
{cloud}/ec-watcher.html#ec-watcher-allowlist[Send alerts by email].
+
--
You do not need to take any more steps to configure an email connector or update
{kib} user settings, since the preconfigured Elastic-Cloud-SMTP connector is
used by default.
--

For self-managed {kib}:

. Create a preconfigured email connector.
+
--
NOTE: At this time, email notifications support only preconfigured connectors,
which are defined in the `kibana.yml` file. For examples, refer to
{kibana-ref}/email-action-type.html#preconfigured-email-configuration[Preconfigured email connector]
and {kibana-ref}/email-action-type.html#configuring-email[Configuring email connectors for well-known services].
--
. Set the `notifications.connectors.default.email` {kib} setting to the name of
your email connector.
. If you want the email notifications to contain links back to the case, you
must configure the {kibana-ref}/settings.html#server-publicBaseUrl[server.publicBaseUrl] setting.

When you subsequently add assignees to cases, they receive an email.
// end::case-notifications[]

[[manage-case]]
=== Manage cases

In *Management > {stack-manage-app} > Cases*, you can search cases and filter
them by attributes such as assignees, severity, status, and tags. You can also
select multiple cases and use bulk actions to delete cases or change their
attributes.

To view a case, click on its name. You can then:

* Add a new comment.
* Edit existing comments and the description.
* Add or remove assignees.
* Add a connector.
* Send updates to external systems (if external connections are configured).
* Edit tags.
* Refresh the case to retrieve the latest updates.
* Change the status.
* Change the severity.
* Close or delete the case.
* Reopen a closed case.
