docs/user/alerting/rule-types/es-query.asciidoc, before:

[[rule-type-es-query]]
== {es} query

:frontmatter-description: An {es} query rule generates alerts when your query meets a threshold.
:frontmatter-tags-products: [kibana,alerting]
:frontmatter-tags-content-type: [overview]
:frontmatter-tags-user-goals: [analyze]

The {es} query rule type runs a user-configured query, compares the number of 
matches to a configured threshold, and schedules actions to run when the 
threshold condition is met.


[float]
=== Create the rule

Fill in the name and optional tags, then select 
*{es} query*. {es} query rule can be defined using KQL/Lucene or Query DSL.

[float]
=== Define the conditions

Define properties to detect the condition.

[role="screenshot"]
image::user/alerting/images/rule-types-es-query-conditions.png[Eight clauses define the condition to detect]

Define your query::
If you chose the query DSL option, you must specify indices to query and a time field that is used for the time window. You must then define a query in {es} query DSL. Only the `query`, `fields`, `_source` and `runtime_mappings` fields are used, other DSL fields are not considered.
+
If you chose the KQL or Lucene option, you must specify a data view then define a text-based query. 
Set the group, theshold, and time window::
When::: Specify how to calculate the value that is compared to the threshold. The value is calculated by aggregating a numeric field within the time window. The aggregation options are: `count`, `average`, `sum`, `min`, and `max`. When using `count` the document count is used and an aggregation field is not necessary. 
Over or Grouped Over::: Specify whether the aggregation is applied over all documents or split into groups using a grouping field. If grouping is used, an alert will be created for each group when it meets the condition. To limit the number of alerts on high cardinality fields, you must specify the number of groups to check against the threshold. Only the top groups are checked.
Threshold::: Defines a threshold value and a comparison operator  (`is above`, 
`is above or equals`, `is below`, `is below or equals`, or `is between`). The value
calculated by the aggregation is compared to this threshold.
Time window::: Defines how far back to search for documents, using the 
time field set in the index clause. Generally this value should be set to a 
value higher than the check interval, to avoid gaps in 
detection.
Set the number of documents to send:: Specifies the number of documents to pass to the configured actions when 
the threshold condition is met.
Exclude matches from previous run:: Turn on to avoid alert duplication by
excluding documents that have already been detected by the previous rule run. This
option is not available when a grouping field is specified.

[float]
=== Add action variables

<<defining-rules-actions-details, Add an action>> to run when the rule condition 
is met. The following variables are specific to the {es} query rule. You can 
also specify 
<<defining-rules-actions-variables, variables common to all rules>>.

`context.title`:: A preconstructed title for the rule. Example: 
`rule term match alert query matched`.

`context.message`:: A preconstructed message for the rule. Example: +
`rule 'my es-query' is active:` +
`- Value: 2` +
`- Conditions Met: Number of matching documents is greater than 1 over 5m` +
`- Timestamp: 2022-02-03T20:29:27.732Z`

`context.group`:: The name of the action group associated with the condition. 
Example: `query matched`.

`context.date`:: The date, in ISO format, that the rule met the condition. 
Example: `2022-02-03T20:29:27.732Z`.

`context.value`:: The value of the rule that met the condition.

`context.conditions`:: A description of the condition. Example: 
`count greater than 4`.

`context.hits`:: The most recent documents that matched the query. Using the 
https://mustache.github.io/[Mustache] template array syntax, you can iterate 
over these hits to get values from the ES documents into your actions.
+
[role="screenshot"]
image::images/rule-types-es-query-example-action-variable.png[Iterate over hits using Mustache template syntax]
+
The documents returned by `context.hits` include the {ref}/mapping-source-field.html[`_source`] field.
If the {es} query search API's {ref}/search-fields.html#search-fields-param[`fields`] parameter is used, documents will also return the `fields` field, 
which can be used to access any runtime fields defined by the {ref}/runtime-search-request.html[`runtime_mappings`] parameter as the following example shows:
+
--
[source]
--------------------------------------------------
{{#context.hits}}
timestamp: {{_source.@timestamp}}
day of the week: {{fields.day_of_week}} <1>
{{/context.hits}}
--------------------------------------------------
// NOTCONSOLE
<1> The `fields` parameter here is used to access the `day_of_week` runtime field.
--
+
As the {ref}/search-fields.html#search-fields-response[`fields`] response always returns an array of values for each field, 
the https://mustache.github.io/[Mustache] template array syntax is used to iterate over these values in your actions as the following example shows:
+
--
[source]
--------------------------------------------------
{{#context.hits}}
Labels:
{{#fields.labels}}
- {{.}}
{{/fields.labels}}
{{/context.hits}}
--------------------------------------------------
// NOTCONSOLE
--

[float]
=== Test your query

Use the *Test query* feature to verify that your query DSL is valid.

* Valid queries are run against the configured *index* using the configured 
*time window*. The number of documents that match the query is displayed.
+
[role="screenshot"]
image::user/alerting/images/rule-types-es-query-valid.png[Test {es} query returns number of matches when valid]

* An error message is shown if the query is invalid.
+
[role="screenshot"]
image::user/alerting/images/rule-types-es-query-invalid.png[Test {es} query shows error when invalid]

[float]
=== Handling multiple matches of the same document

By default, *Exclude matches from previous run* is turned on and the rule checks
for duplication of document matches across multiple runs. If you configure the
rule with a schedule interval smaller than the time window and a document
matches a query in multiple runs, it is alerted on only once.

The rule uses the timestamp of the matches to avoid alerting on the same match 
multiple times. The timestamp of the latest match is used for evaluating the 
rule conditions when the rule runs. Only matches between the latest timestamp
from the previous run and the current run are considered.

Suppose you have a rule configured to run every minute. The rule uses a time 
window of 1 hour and checks if there are more than 99 matches for the query. The 
{es} query rule type does the following:

[cols="3*<"]
|===
| `Run 1 (0:00)`
| Rule finds 113 matches in the last hour: `113 > 99`
| Rule is active and user is alerted.
| `Run 2 (0:01)`
| Rule finds 127 matches in the last hour. 105 of the matches are duplicates that were already alerted on previously, so you actually have 22 matches: `22 !> 99`
| No alert.
| `Run 3 (0:02)`
| Rule finds 159 matches in the last hour. 88 of the matches are duplicates that were already alerted on previously, so you actually have 71 matches: `71 !> 99`
| No alert.
| `Run 4 (0:03)`
| Rule finds 190 matches in the last hour. 71 of them are duplicates that were already alerted on previously, so you actually have 119 matches: `119 > 99`
| Rule is active and user is alerted.
|===

Commit message:

[8.10] [DOCS] Automate Elasticsearch query rule screenshots (#164127) (#164629)
# Backport

This will backport the following commits from `main` to `8.10`:
- [[DOCS] Automate Elasticsearch query rule screenshots
(#164127)](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/164127)

<!--- Backport version: 8.9.7 -->

### Questions ?
Please refer to the [Backport tool
documentation](https://github.com/sqren/backport)

<!--BACKPORT [{"author":{"name":"Lisa
Cawley","email":"lcawley@elastic.co"},"sourceCommit":{"committedDate":"2023-08-23T18:41:44Z","message":"[DOCS]
Automate Elasticsearch query rule screenshots
(#164127)","sha":"154ca404d05fd875d1348d537bc518c89a009a00","branchLabelMapping":{"^v8.11.0$":"main","^v(\\d+).(\\d+).\\d+$":"$1.$2"}},"sourcePullRequest":{"labels":["Feature:Alerting","release_note:skip","Team:ResponseOps","docs","backport:prev-minor","v8.11.0"],"number":164127,"url":"https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/164127","mergeCommit":{"message":"[DOCS]
Automate Elasticsearch query rule screenshots
(#164127)","sha":"154ca404d05fd875d1348d537bc518c89a009a00"}},"sourceBranch":"main","suggestedTargetBranches":[],"targetPullRequestStates":[{"branch":"main","label":"v8.11.0","labelRegex":"^v8.11.0$","isSourceBranch":true,"state":"MERGED","url":"https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/164127","number":164127,"mergeCommit":{"message":"[DOCS]
Automate Elasticsearch query rule screenshots
(#164127)","sha":"154ca404d05fd875d1348d537bc518c89a009a00"}}]}]
BACKPORT-->

Co-authored-by: Lisa Cawley <lcawley@elastic.co>

docs/user/alerting/rule-types/es-query.asciidoc, after:

[[rule-type-es-query]]
== {es} query

:frontmatter-description: An {es} query rule generates alerts when your query meets a threshold.
:frontmatter-tags-products: [kibana,alerting]
:frontmatter-tags-content-type: [overview]
:frontmatter-tags-user-goals: [analyze]

The {es} query rule type runs a user-configured query, compares the number of 
matches to a configured threshold, and schedules actions to run when the 
threshold condition is met.


[float]
=== Create the rule

Fill in the name and optional tags, then select 
*{es} query*. {es} query rule can be defined using KQL/Lucene or Query DSL.

[float]
=== Define the conditions

Define properties to detect the condition.

[role="screenshot"]
image::user/alerting/images/rule-types-es-query-conditions.png[Define the condition to detect]
// NOTE: This is an autogenerated screenshot. Do not edit it directly.

Define your query::
If you chose the query DSL option, you must specify indices to query and a time field that is used for the time window. You must then define a query in {es} query DSL. Only the `query`, `fields`, `_source` and `runtime_mappings` fields are used, other DSL fields are not considered.
+
If you chose the KQL or Lucene option, you must specify a data view then define a text-based query. 
Set the group, theshold, and time window::
When::: Specify how to calculate the value that is compared to the threshold. The value is calculated by aggregating a numeric field within the time window. The aggregation options are: `count`, `average`, `sum`, `min`, and `max`. When using `count` the document count is used and an aggregation field is not necessary. 
Over or Grouped Over::: Specify whether the aggregation is applied over all documents or split into groups using a grouping field. If grouping is used, an alert will be created for each group when it meets the condition. To limit the number of alerts on high cardinality fields, you must specify the number of groups to check against the threshold. Only the top groups are checked.
Threshold::: Defines a threshold value and a comparison operator  (`is above`, 
`is above or equals`, `is below`, `is below or equals`, or `is between`). The value
calculated by the aggregation is compared to this threshold.
Time window::: Defines how far back to search for documents, using the 
time field set in the index clause. Generally this value should be set to a 
value higher than the check interval, to avoid gaps in 
detection.
Set the number of documents to send:: Specifies the number of documents to pass to the configured actions when 
the threshold condition is met.
Exclude matches from previous run:: Turn on to avoid alert duplication by
excluding documents that have already been detected by the previous rule run. This
option is not available when a grouping field is specified.

[float]
=== Add action variables

<<defining-rules-actions-details, Add an action>> to run when the rule condition 
is met. The following variables are specific to the {es} query rule. You can 
also specify 
<<defining-rules-actions-variables, variables common to all rules>>.

`context.title`:: A preconstructed title for the rule. Example: 
`rule term match alert query matched`.

`context.message`:: A preconstructed message for the rule. Example: +
`rule 'my es-query' is active:` +
`- Value: 2` +
`- Conditions Met: Number of matching documents is greater than 1 over 5m` +
`- Timestamp: 2022-02-03T20:29:27.732Z`

`context.group`:: The name of the action group associated with the condition. 
Example: `query matched`.

`context.date`:: The date, in ISO format, that the rule met the condition. 
Example: `2022-02-03T20:29:27.732Z`.

`context.value`:: The value of the rule that met the condition.

`context.conditions`:: A description of the condition. Example: 
`count greater than 4`.

`context.hits`:: The most recent documents that matched the query. Using the 
https://mustache.github.io/[Mustache] template array syntax, you can iterate 
over these hits to get values from the ES documents into your actions.
+
[role="screenshot"]
image::images/rule-types-es-query-example-action-variable.png[Iterate over hits using Mustache template syntax]
+
The documents returned by `context.hits` include the {ref}/mapping-source-field.html[`_source`] field.
If the {es} query search API's {ref}/search-fields.html#search-fields-param[`fields`] parameter is used, documents will also return the `fields` field, 
which can be used to access any runtime fields defined by the {ref}/runtime-search-request.html[`runtime_mappings`] parameter as the following example shows:
+
--
[source]
--------------------------------------------------
{{#context.hits}}
timestamp: {{_source.@timestamp}}
day of the week: {{fields.day_of_week}} <1>
{{/context.hits}}
--------------------------------------------------
// NOTCONSOLE
<1> The `fields` parameter here is used to access the `day_of_week` runtime field.
--
+
As the {ref}/search-fields.html#search-fields-response[`fields`] response always returns an array of values for each field, 
the https://mustache.github.io/[Mustache] template array syntax is used to iterate over these values in your actions as the following example shows:
+
--
[source]
--------------------------------------------------
{{#context.hits}}
Labels:
{{#fields.labels}}
- {{.}}
{{/fields.labels}}
{{/context.hits}}
--------------------------------------------------
// NOTCONSOLE
--

[float]
=== Test your query

Use the *Test query* feature to verify that your query DSL is valid.

* Valid queries are run against the configured *index* using the configured 
*time window*. The number of documents that match the query is displayed.
+
[role="screenshot"]
image::user/alerting/images/rule-types-es-query-valid.png[Test {es} query returns number of matches when valid]
// NOTE: This is an autogenerated screenshot. Do not edit it directly.

* An error message is shown if the query is invalid.
+
[role="screenshot"]
image::user/alerting/images/rule-types-es-query-invalid.png[Test {es} query shows error when invalid]
// NOTE: This is an autogenerated screenshot. Do not edit it directly.

[float]
=== Handling multiple matches of the same document

By default, *Exclude matches from previous run* is turned on and the rule checks
for duplication of document matches across multiple runs. If you configure the
rule with a schedule interval smaller than the time window and a document
matches a query in multiple runs, it is alerted on only once.

The rule uses the timestamp of the matches to avoid alerting on the same match 
multiple times. The timestamp of the latest match is used for evaluating the 
rule conditions when the rule runs. Only matches between the latest timestamp
from the previous run and the current run are considered.

Suppose you have a rule configured to run every minute. The rule uses a time 
window of 1 hour and checks if there are more than 99 matches for the query. The 
{es} query rule type does the following:

[cols="3*<"]
|===
| `Run 1 (0:00)`
| Rule finds 113 matches in the last hour: `113 > 99`
| Rule is active and user is alerted.
| `Run 2 (0:01)`
| Rule finds 127 matches in the last hour. 105 of the matches are duplicates that were already alerted on previously, so you actually have 22 matches: `22 !> 99`
| No alert.
| `Run 3 (0:02)`
| Rule finds 159 matches in the last hour. 88 of the matches are duplicates that were already alerted on previously, so you actually have 71 matches: `71 !> 99`
| No alert.
| `Run 4 (0:03)`
| Rule finds 190 matches in the last hour. 71 of them are duplicates that were already alerted on previously, so you actually have 119 matches: `119 > 99`
| Rule is active and user is alerted.
|===
