x-pack/plugins/security_solution/server/lib/detection_engine/rules/prepackaged_timelines/README.md, before:



### How to on board a new prepackage timelines:



1.  [Have the env params set up](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/blob/main/x-pack/plugins/security_solution/server/lib/detection_engine/README.md)

2. Create a new timelines template into `x-pack/plugins/security_solution/server/lib/detection_engine/rules/prepackaged_timelines`

	##### 2.a : Create a new template from UI and export it.

	 1. Go to Security Solution app in Kibana
	 2. Go to timelines > templates > custom templates (a filter on the right)
	 3. Click `Create new timeline template`
	 4. Edit your template
	 5. Export only **one** timeline template each time and put that in `x-pack/plugins/security_solution/server/lib/detection_engine/rules/prepackaged_timelines`. (For potential update requirement in the future, we put one timeline in each file to keep nice and clear)
	 6. Rename the file extension to `.json`
	 7. Check the chapter of `Fields to hightlight for on boarding a new prepackaged timeline` in this readme and update your template




	##### 2.b : Create a new template from scratch
	Please note that below template is just an example, please replace all your fields with whatever makes sense. Do check `Fields to hightlight for on boarding a new prepackaged timeline` to make sure the template can be created as expected.


		cd x-pack/plugins/security_solution/server/lib/detection_engine/rules/prepackaged_timelines



		echo '{"savedObjectId":null,"version":null,"columns":[{"indexes":null,"name":null,"columnHeaderType":"not-filtered","id":"@timestamp","searchable":null},{"indexes":null,"name":null,"columnHeaderType":"not-filtered","id":"kibana.alert.rule.description","searchable":null},{"indexes":null,"name":null,"columnHeaderType":"not-filtered","id":"event.action","searchable":null},{"indexes":null,"name":null,"columnHeaderType":"not-filtered","id":"process.name","searchable":null},{"indexes":null,"aggregatable":true,"name":null,"description":"The working directory of the process.","columnHeaderType":"not-filtered","id":"process.working_directory","category":"process","type":"string","searchable":null,"example":"/home/alice"},{"indexes":null,"aggregatable":true,"name":null,"description":"Array of process arguments, starting with the absolute path to\nthe executable.\n\nMay be filtered to protect sensitive information.","columnHeaderType":"not-filtered","id":"process.args","category":"process","type":"string","searchable":null,"example":"[\"/usr/bin/ssh\",\"-l\",\"user\",\"10.0.0.16\"]"},{"indexes":null,"name":null,"columnHeaderType":"not-filtered","id":"process.pid","searchable":null},{"indexes":null,"aggregatable":true,"name":null,"description":"Absolute path to the process executable.","columnHeaderType":"not-filtered","id":"process.parent.executable","category":"process","type":"string","searchable":null,"example":"/usr/bin/ssh"},{"indexes":null,"aggregatable":true,"name":null,"description":"Array of process arguments.\n\nMay be filtered to protect sensitive information.","columnHeaderType":"not-filtered","id":"process.parent.args","category":"process","type":"string","searchable":null,"example":"[\"ssh\",\"-l\",\"user\",\"10.0.0.16\"]"},{"indexes":null,"aggregatable":true,"name":null,"description":"Process id.","columnHeaderType":"not-filtered","id":"process.parent.pid","category":"process","type":"number","searchable":null,"example":"4242"},{"indexes":null,"aggregatable":true,"name":null,"description":"Short name or login of the user.","columnHeaderType":"not-filtered","id":"user.name","category":"user","type":"string","searchable":null,"example":"albert"},{"indexes":null,"aggregatable":true,"name":null,"description":"Name of the host.\n\nIt can contain what `hostname` returns on Unix systems, the fully qualified\ndomain name, or a name specified by the user. The sender decides which value\nto use.","columnHeaderType":"not-filtered","id":"host.name","category":"host","type":"string","searchable":null}],"dataProviders":[{"excluded":false,"and":[],"kqlQuery":"","name":"590eb946a7fdbacaa587ed0f6b1a16f5ad3d659ec47ef35ad0826c47af133bde","queryMatch":{"displayValue":null,"field":"_id","displayField":null,"value":"590eb946a7fdbacaa587ed0f6b1a16f5ad3d659ec47ef35ad0826c47af133bde","operator":":"},"id":"send-signal-to-timeline-action-default-draggable-event-details-value-formatted-field-value-timeline-1-signal-id-590eb946a7fdbacaa587ed0f6b1a16f5ad3d659ec47ef35ad0826c47af133bde","enabled":true}],"description":"","eventType":"all","filters":[],"kqlMode":"filter","kqlQuery":{"filterQuery":{"kuery":{"kind":"kuery","expression":""},"serializedQuery":""}},"title":"Generic Process Timeline","dateRange":{"start":1588161020848,"end":1588162280848},"savedQueryId":null,"sort":{"columnId":"@timestamp","sortDirection":"desc"},"created":1588162404153,"createdBy":"Elastic","updated":1588604767818,"updatedBy":"Elastic","eventNotes":[],"globalNotes":[],"pinnedEventIds":[],"timelineType":"template","status":"immutable","templateTimelineId":"2c7e0663-5a91-0004-aa15-26bf756d2c40","templateTimelineVersion":1}' > my_new_template.json```

	#### Note that the json has to be minified.
	#### Fields to hightlight for on boarding a new prepackaged timeline:

	- savedObjectId: null

	- version: null

	- templateTimelineId: Specify an unique uuid e.g.: `2c7e0663-5a91-0004-aa15-26bf756d2c40`

	- templateTimelineVersion: just start from `1`

	- timelineType: `template`

	- status: `immutable`



3.  ```cd x-pack/plugins/security_solution/server/lib/detection_engine/scripts```

4.  ```sh ./timelines/regen_prepackage_timelines_index.sh```

(this will update `x-pack/plugins/security_solution/server/lib/detection_engine/rules/prepackaged_timelines/index.ndjson`)



5. Go to `http://localhost:5601/app/security#/detections/rules` and click on `Install Elastic prebuild rules`

or run

```
cd x-pack/plugins/security_solution/server/lib/detection_engine/scripts

sh ./timelines/add_prepackaged_timelines.sh

```



6. Check in UI or run the script below to see if prepackaged timelines on-boarded correctly.

```

sh ./timelines/find_timeline_by_filter.sh immutable template elastic

```



### How to update an existing prepackage timeline:

1.  ```cd x-pack/plugins/security_solution/server/lib/detection_engine/rules/prepackaged_timelines```

2. Open the json file you wish to update, and remember to bump the `templateTimelineVersion`

3. Go to ```cd x-pack/plugins/security_solution/server/lib/detection_engine/scripts```, run ```sh ./timelines/regen_prepackage_timelines_index.sh```

4. Go to `http://localhost:5601/app/security#/detections/rules` and click on `Install Elastic prebuild rules`

or run

```

sh ./timelines/add_prepackaged_timelines.sh

```



5. Check in UI or run the script below to see if the prepackaged timeline updated correctly.

```

sh ./timelines/find_timeline_by_filter.sh immutable template elastic

```




### How to install prepackaged timelines:

1.  ```cd x-pack/plugins/siem/server/lib/detection_engine/scripts```

2.  ```sh ./timelines/add_prepackaged_timelines.sh```

3.  ```sh ./timelines/find_timeline_by_filter.sh immutable template elastic```



### Get timeline by id:

```

cd x-pack/plugins/security_solution/server/lib/detection_engine/scripts

sh ./timelines/get_timeline_by_id.sh {id}

```




### Get timeline by templateTimelineId:

```

cd x-pack/plugins/security_solution/server/lib/detection_engine/scripts

sh ./timelines/get_timeline_by_template_timeline_id.sh {template_timeline_id}

```




### Get all custom timelines:

```

cd x-pack/plugins/security_solution/server/lib/detection_engine/scripts

sh ./timelines/get_all_timelines.sh

```




### Delete all timelines:

```

cd x-pack/plugins/security_solution/server/lib/detection_engine/scripts

sh ./timelines/delete_all_timelines.sh

```



### Delete timeline by timeline id:

```

cd x-pack/plugins/security_solution/server/lib/detection_engine/scripts

./timelines/delete_all_alerts.sh {timeline_id}

```

Commit message:

Update indexNames for general threat match timeline (#123358)
Co-authored-by: Kibana Machine <42973632+kibanamachine@users.noreply.github.com>
(cherry picked from commit 4282355fb6fdaccfdc3e593993617c8e7a24cb0c)

x-pack/plugins/security_solution/server/lib/detection_engine/rules/prepackaged_timelines/README.md, after:



### How to on board a new prepackage timelines:



1.  [Have the env params set up](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/blob/main/x-pack/plugins/security_solution/server/lib/detection_engine/README.md)

2. Create a new timelines template into `x-pack/plugins/security_solution/server/lib/detection_engine/rules/prepackaged_timelines`

	##### 2.a : Create a new template from UI and export it.

	 1. Go to Security Solution app in Kibana
	 2. Go to timelines > templates > custom templates (a filter on the right)
	 3. Click `Create new timeline template`
	 4. Edit your template
	 5. Export only **one** timeline template each time and put that in `x-pack/plugins/security_solution/server/lib/detection_engine/rules/prepackaged_timelines`. (For potential update requirement in the future, we put one timeline in each file to keep nice and clear)
	 6. Rename the file extension to `.json`
	 7. Check the chapter of `Fields to hightlight for on boarding a new prepackaged timeline` in this readme and update your template




	##### 2.b : Create a new template from scratch
	Please note that below template is just an example, please replace all your fields with whatever makes sense. Do check `Fields to hightlight for on boarding a new prepackaged timeline` to make sure the template can be created as expected.


		cd x-pack/plugins/security_solution/server/lib/detection_engine/rules/prepackaged_timelines



		echo '{"savedObjectId":null,"version":null,"columns":[{"indexes":null,"name":null,"columnHeaderType":"not-filtered","id":"@timestamp","searchable":null},{"indexes":null,"name":null,"columnHeaderType":"not-filtered","id":"kibana.alert.rule.description","searchable":null},{"indexes":null,"name":null,"columnHeaderType":"not-filtered","id":"event.action","searchable":null},{"indexes":null,"name":null,"columnHeaderType":"not-filtered","id":"process.name","searchable":null},{"indexes":null,"aggregatable":true,"name":null,"description":"The working directory of the process.","columnHeaderType":"not-filtered","id":"process.working_directory","category":"process","type":"string","searchable":null,"example":"/home/alice"},{"indexes":null,"aggregatable":true,"name":null,"description":"Array of process arguments, starting with the absolute path to\nthe executable.\n\nMay be filtered to protect sensitive information.","columnHeaderType":"not-filtered","id":"process.args","category":"process","type":"string","searchable":null,"example":"[\"/usr/bin/ssh\",\"-l\",\"user\",\"10.0.0.16\"]"},{"indexes":null,"name":null,"columnHeaderType":"not-filtered","id":"process.pid","searchable":null},{"indexes":null,"aggregatable":true,"name":null,"description":"Absolute path to the process executable.","columnHeaderType":"not-filtered","id":"process.parent.executable","category":"process","type":"string","searchable":null,"example":"/usr/bin/ssh"},{"indexes":null,"aggregatable":true,"name":null,"description":"Array of process arguments.\n\nMay be filtered to protect sensitive information.","columnHeaderType":"not-filtered","id":"process.parent.args","category":"process","type":"string","searchable":null,"example":"[\"ssh\",\"-l\",\"user\",\"10.0.0.16\"]"},{"indexes":null,"aggregatable":true,"name":null,"description":"Process id.","columnHeaderType":"not-filtered","id":"process.parent.pid","category":"process","type":"number","searchable":null,"example":"4242"},{"indexes":null,"aggregatable":true,"name":null,"description":"Short name or login of the user.","columnHeaderType":"not-filtered","id":"user.name","category":"user","type":"string","searchable":null,"example":"albert"},{"indexes":null,"aggregatable":true,"name":null,"description":"Name of the host.\n\nIt can contain what `hostname` returns on Unix systems, the fully qualified\ndomain name, or a name specified by the user. The sender decides which value\nto use.","columnHeaderType":"not-filtered","id":"host.name","category":"host","type":"string","searchable":null}],"dataProviders":[{"excluded":false,"and":[],"kqlQuery":"","name":"590eb946a7fdbacaa587ed0f6b1a16f5ad3d659ec47ef35ad0826c47af133bde","queryMatch":{"displayValue":null,"field":"_id","displayField":null,"value":"590eb946a7fdbacaa587ed0f6b1a16f5ad3d659ec47ef35ad0826c47af133bde","operator":":"},"id":"send-signal-to-timeline-action-default-draggable-event-details-value-formatted-field-value-timeline-1-signal-id-590eb946a7fdbacaa587ed0f6b1a16f5ad3d659ec47ef35ad0826c47af133bde","enabled":true}],"description":"","eventType":"all","filters":[],"kqlMode":"filter","kqlQuery":{"filterQuery":{"kuery":{"kind":"kuery","expression":""},"serializedQuery":""}},"title":"Generic Process Timeline","dateRange":{"start":1588161020848,"end":1588162280848},"savedQueryId":null,"sort":{"columnId":"@timestamp","sortDirection":"desc"},"created":1588162404153,"createdBy":"Elastic","updated":1588604767818,"updatedBy":"Elastic","eventNotes":[],"globalNotes":[],"pinnedEventIds":[],"timelineType":"template","status":"immutable","templateTimelineId":"2c7e0663-5a91-0004-aa15-26bf756d2c40","templateTimelineVersion":1}' > my_new_template.json```

	#### Note that the json has to be minified.
	#### Fields to hightlight for on boarding a new prepackaged timeline:

	- savedObjectId: null

	- version: null

	- templateTimelineId: Specify an unique uuid e.g.: `2c7e0663-5a91-0004-aa15-26bf756d2c40`

	- templateTimelineVersion: start from `1`, bump it on update

	- timelineType: `template`

	- status: `immutable`

  - indexNames: []



3.  ```cd x-pack/plugins/security_solution/server/lib/detection_engine/scripts```

4.  ```sh ./timelines/regen_prepackage_timelines_index.sh```

(this will update `x-pack/plugins/security_solution/server/lib/detection_engine/rules/prepackaged_timelines/index.ndjson`)



5. Go to `http://localhost:5601/app/security#/detections/rules` and click on `Install Elastic prebuild rules`

or run

```
cd x-pack/plugins/security_solution/server/lib/detection_engine/scripts

sh ./timelines/add_prepackaged_timelines.sh

```



6. Check in UI or run the script below to see if prepackaged timelines on-boarded correctly.

```

sh ./timelines/find_timeline_by_filter.sh immutable template elastic

```



### How to update an existing prepackage timeline:

1.  ```cd x-pack/plugins/security_solution/server/lib/detection_engine/rules/prepackaged_timelines```

2. Open the json file you wish to update, and remember to bump the `templateTimelineVersion`

3. Go to ```cd x-pack/plugins/security_solution/server/lib/detection_engine/scripts```, run ```sh ./timelines/regen_prepackage_timelines_index.sh```

4. Go to `http://localhost:5601/app/security#/detections/rules` and click on `Install Elastic prebuild rules`

or run

```

sh ./timelines/add_prepackaged_timelines.sh

```



5. Check in UI or run the script below to see if the prepackaged timeline updated correctly.

```

sh ./timelines/find_timeline_by_filter.sh immutable template elastic

```




### How to install prepackaged timelines:

1.  ```cd x-pack/plugins/siem/server/lib/detection_engine/scripts```

2.  ```sh ./timelines/add_prepackaged_timelines.sh```

3.  ```sh ./timelines/find_timeline_by_filter.sh immutable template elastic```



### Get timeline by id:

```

cd x-pack/plugins/security_solution/server/lib/detection_engine/scripts

sh ./timelines/get_timeline_by_id.sh {id}

```




### Get timeline by templateTimelineId:

```

cd x-pack/plugins/security_solution/server/lib/detection_engine/scripts

sh ./timelines/get_timeline_by_template_timeline_id.sh {template_timeline_id}

```




### Get all custom timelines:

```

cd x-pack/plugins/security_solution/server/lib/detection_engine/scripts

sh ./timelines/get_all_timelines.sh

```




### Delete all timelines:

```

cd x-pack/plugins/security_solution/server/lib/detection_engine/scripts

sh ./timelines/delete_all_timelines.sh

```



### Delete timeline by timeline id:

```

cd x-pack/plugins/security_solution/server/lib/detection_engine/scripts

./timelines/delete_all_alerts.sh {timeline_id}

```
