docs/setup/install/rpm.asciidoc, before:

[[rpm]]
=== Install {kib} with RPM
++++
<titleabbrev>Install with RPM</titleabbrev>
++++


The RPM for Kibana can be <<install-rpm,downloaded from our website>>
or from our <<rpm-repo,RPM repository>>. It can be used to install
Kibana on any RPM-based system such as OpenSuSE, SLES, Red Hat,
and Oracle Enterprise.

NOTE: RPM install is not supported on distributions with old versions of RPM,
such as SLES 11. Refer to <<targz>> instead.

This package contains both free and subscription features.
<<managing-licenses,Start a 30-day trial>> to try out all of the features.

The latest stable version of Kibana can be found on the
link:/downloads/kibana[Download Kibana] page. Other versions can
be found on the link:/downloads/past-releases[Past Releases page].

[[rpm-key]]
==== Import the Elastic PGP key

include::key.asciidoc[]

[source,sh]
-------------------------
rpm --import https://artifacts.elastic.co/GPG-KEY-elasticsearch
-------------------------

[[rpm-repo]]
==== Installing from the RPM repository

ifeval::["{release-state}"=="unreleased"]

Version {version} of Kibana has not yet been released.

endif::[]

ifeval::["{release-state}"!="unreleased"]

Create a file called `kibana.repo` in the `/etc/yum.repos.d/` directory
for RedHat based distributions, or in the `/etc/zypp/repos.d/` directory for
OpenSuSE based distributions, containing:

ifeval::["{release-state}"=="released"]

["source","sh",subs="attributes,callouts"]
--------------------------------------------------
[kibana-{major-version}]
name=Kibana repository for {major-version} packages
baseurl=https://artifacts.elastic.co/packages/{major-version}/yum
gpgcheck=1
gpgkey=https://artifacts.elastic.co/GPG-KEY-elasticsearch
enabled=1
autorefresh=1
type=rpm-md
--------------------------------------------------

endif::[]

ifeval::["{release-state}"=="prerelease"]

["source","sh",subs="attributes,callouts"]
--------------------------------------------------
[kibana-{major-version}]
name=Kibana repository for {major-version} packages
baseurl=https://artifacts.elastic.co/packages/{major-version}-prerelease/yum
gpgcheck=1
gpgkey=https://artifacts.elastic.co/GPG-KEY-elasticsearch
enabled=1
autorefresh=1
type=rpm-md
--------------------------------------------------

endif::[]

And your repository is ready for use. You can now install Kibana with one of the following commands:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
sudo yum install kibana <1>
sudo dnf install kibana <2>
sudo zypper install kibana <3>
--------------------------------------------------
<1> Use `yum` on older Red Hat based distributions.
<2> Use `dnf` on Fedora and other newer Red Hat distributions.
<3> Use `zypper` on OpenSUSE based distributions

endif::[]

[[install-rpm]]
==== Download and install the RPM manually

ifeval::["{release-state}"=="unreleased"]

Version {version} of Kibana has not yet been released.

endif::[]

ifeval::["{release-state}"!="unreleased"]

The RPM for Kibana v{version} can be downloaded from the website and installed as follows:

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
--------------------------------------------
wget https://artifacts.elastic.co/downloads/kibana/kibana-{version}-x86_64.rpm
shasum -a 512 kibana-{version}-x86_64.rpm <1>
sudo rpm --install kibana-{version}-x86_64.rpm
--------------------------------------------
<1> Compare the SHA produced by `shasum` with the
    https://artifacts.elastic.co/downloads/kibana/kibana-{version}-x86_64.rpm.sha512[published SHA].

endif::[]

[[rpm-enroll]]
==== Start {es} and generate an enrollment token for {kib}
++++
<titleabbrev>Generate an enrollment token</titleabbrev>
++++

When you start {es} for the first time, the following security configuration
occurs automatically:

* Authentication and authorization are enabled, and a password is generated for the `elastic` built-in superuser.
* Certificates and keys for TLS are generated for the transport and HTTP layer, and TLS is enabled and configured with these keys and certificates.

The password and certificate and keys are output to your terminal.

You can then generate an enrollment token for {kib} with the
{ref}/create-enrollment-token.html[`elasticsearch-create-enrollment-token`] tool:

[source,sh]
----
bin/elasticsearch-create-enrollment-token -s kibana
----

Start {kib} and enter the enrollment token to securely connect {kib} with {es}.

[[rpm-running-systemd]]
include::systemd.asciidoc[]

[[rpm-configuring]]
==== Configure {kib} via the config file

Kibana loads its configuration from the `/etc/kibana/kibana.yml`
file by default.  The format of this config file is explained in
{kibana-ref}/settings.html[Configuring Kibana].

[[rpm-layout]]
==== Directory layout of RPM

The RPM places config files, logs, and the data directory in the appropriate
locations for an RPM-based system:


[cols="<h,<,<m,<m",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
| Type | Description | Default Location | Setting
| home
  | Kibana home directory or `$KIBANA_HOME`
  | /usr/share/kibana
 d|

| bin
  | Binary scripts including `kibana` to start the Kibana server
    and `kibana-plugin` to install plugins
  | /usr/share/kibana/bin
 d|

| config
  | Configuration files including `kibana.yml`
  | /etc/kibana
  | <<settings,KBN_PATH_CONF>>

| data
  | The location of the data files written to disk by Kibana and its plugins
  | /var/lib/kibana
  | path.data

| logs
  | Logs files location
  | /var/log/kibana
  | path.logs

| plugins
  | Plugin files location. Each plugin will be contained in a subdirectory.
  | /usr/share/kibana/plugins
 d|

|=======================================================================

Commit message:

[Docs] Confirm Kibana checksum with the command line (#148117)
## Summary

Following this
[recommendation](https://discuss.elastic.co/t/checksum-confirmation-during-kibana-installation-for-rpm/320425)
from a community member, this PR aligns the instructions to install
Kibana from RPM with [Elasticsearch
documentation](https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch/blob/b7060bad9a837d05973d96745db7a485a61bc148/docs/reference/setup/install/rpm.asciidoc?plain=1#L114-L117)
to also download the checksum file and use `shasum` to run the test and
confirm the file is correct.

Co-authored-by: Kibana Machine <42973632+kibanamachine@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/setup/install/rpm.asciidoc, after:

[[rpm]]
=== Install {kib} with RPM
++++
<titleabbrev>Install with RPM</titleabbrev>
++++


The RPM for Kibana can be <<install-rpm,downloaded from our website>>
or from our <<rpm-repo,RPM repository>>. It can be used to install
Kibana on any RPM-based system such as OpenSuSE, SLES, Red Hat,
and Oracle Enterprise.

NOTE: RPM install is not supported on distributions with old versions of RPM,
such as SLES 11. Refer to <<targz>> instead.

This package contains both free and subscription features.
<<managing-licenses,Start a 30-day trial>> to try out all of the features.

The latest stable version of Kibana can be found on the
link:/downloads/kibana[Download Kibana] page. Other versions can
be found on the link:/downloads/past-releases[Past Releases page].

[[rpm-key]]
==== Import the Elastic PGP key

include::key.asciidoc[]

[source,sh]
-------------------------
rpm --import https://artifacts.elastic.co/GPG-KEY-elasticsearch
-------------------------

[[rpm-repo]]
==== Installing from the RPM repository

ifeval::["{release-state}"=="unreleased"]

Version {version} of Kibana has not yet been released.

endif::[]

ifeval::["{release-state}"!="unreleased"]

Create a file called `kibana.repo` in the `/etc/yum.repos.d/` directory
for RedHat based distributions, or in the `/etc/zypp/repos.d/` directory for
OpenSuSE based distributions, containing:

ifeval::["{release-state}"=="released"]

["source","sh",subs="attributes,callouts"]
--------------------------------------------------
[kibana-{major-version}]
name=Kibana repository for {major-version} packages
baseurl=https://artifacts.elastic.co/packages/{major-version}/yum
gpgcheck=1
gpgkey=https://artifacts.elastic.co/GPG-KEY-elasticsearch
enabled=1
autorefresh=1
type=rpm-md
--------------------------------------------------

endif::[]

ifeval::["{release-state}"=="prerelease"]

["source","sh",subs="attributes,callouts"]
--------------------------------------------------
[kibana-{major-version}]
name=Kibana repository for {major-version} packages
baseurl=https://artifacts.elastic.co/packages/{major-version}-prerelease/yum
gpgcheck=1
gpgkey=https://artifacts.elastic.co/GPG-KEY-elasticsearch
enabled=1
autorefresh=1
type=rpm-md
--------------------------------------------------

endif::[]

And your repository is ready for use. You can now install Kibana with one of the following commands:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
sudo yum install kibana <1>
sudo dnf install kibana <2>
sudo zypper install kibana <3>
--------------------------------------------------
<1> Use `yum` on older Red Hat based distributions.
<2> Use `dnf` on Fedora and other newer Red Hat distributions.
<3> Use `zypper` on OpenSUSE based distributions

endif::[]

[[install-rpm]]
==== Download and install the RPM manually

ifeval::["{release-state}"=="unreleased"]

Version {version} of Kibana has not yet been released.

endif::[]

ifeval::["{release-state}"!="unreleased"]

The RPM for Kibana v{version} can be downloaded from the website and installed as follows:

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
--------------------------------------------
wget https://artifacts.elastic.co/downloads/kibana/kibana-{version}-x86_64.rpm
wget https://artifacts.elastic.co/downloads/kibana/kibana-{version}-x86_64.rpm.sha512
shasum -a 512 -c kibana-{version}-x86_64.rpm <1>
sudo rpm --install kibana-{version}-x86_64.rpm
--------------------------------------------
<1> Compares the SHA of the downloaded RPM and the published checksum, which should output
    `kibana-{version}-x86_64.rpm: OK`.

endif::[]

[[rpm-enroll]]
==== Start {es} and generate an enrollment token for {kib}
++++
<titleabbrev>Generate an enrollment token</titleabbrev>
++++

When you start {es} for the first time, the following security configuration
occurs automatically:

* Authentication and authorization are enabled, and a password is generated for the `elastic` built-in superuser.
* Certificates and keys for TLS are generated for the transport and HTTP layer, and TLS is enabled and configured with these keys and certificates.

The password and certificate and keys are output to your terminal.

You can then generate an enrollment token for {kib} with the
{ref}/create-enrollment-token.html[`elasticsearch-create-enrollment-token`] tool:

[source,sh]
----
bin/elasticsearch-create-enrollment-token -s kibana
----

Start {kib} and enter the enrollment token to securely connect {kib} with {es}.

[[rpm-running-systemd]]
include::systemd.asciidoc[]

[[rpm-configuring]]
==== Configure {kib} via the config file

Kibana loads its configuration from the `/etc/kibana/kibana.yml`
file by default.  The format of this config file is explained in
{kibana-ref}/settings.html[Configuring Kibana].

[[rpm-layout]]
==== Directory layout of RPM

The RPM places config files, logs, and the data directory in the appropriate
locations for an RPM-based system:


[cols="<h,<,<m,<m",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
| Type | Description | Default Location | Setting
| home
  | Kibana home directory or `$KIBANA_HOME`
  | /usr/share/kibana
 d|

| bin
  | Binary scripts including `kibana` to start the Kibana server
    and `kibana-plugin` to install plugins
  | /usr/share/kibana/bin
 d|

| config
  | Configuration files including `kibana.yml`
  | /etc/kibana
  | <<settings,KBN_PATH_CONF>>

| data
  | The location of the data files written to disk by Kibana and its plugins
  | /var/lib/kibana
  | path.data

| logs
  | Logs files location
  | /var/log/kibana
  | path.logs

| plugins
  | Plugin files location. Each plugin will be contained in a subdirectory.
  | /usr/share/kibana/plugins
 d|

|=======================================================================
