docs/discover/document-explorer.asciidoc, before:

[[document-explorer]]
== Document Explorer

beta::[]

*Discover* has a new *Document Explorer* with better data sorting,
resizable columns, and a full screen view.

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/document-explorer.png[Document Explorer with improved look over classic view]

To use the *Document Explorer* instead of the classic document table:

. In the toolbar, click *Options*.
. Click *Try Document Explorer*.
. Turn off the classic view.

[float]
[[document-explorer-sort-data]]
=== Sort data

Sort your data by one or more fields, in ascending or descending order.
The default sort is based on the time field, from new to old.

. Click *1 field sorted*.
+
[role="screenshot"]
image::images/document-explorer-sort-data.png[Pop-up in Document Explorer for sorting columns, width="75%"]

. In the pop-up, use the dropdown menu to add more fields to sort by.
+
By default, columns in a multi-field are sorted in the order they are added.
This example sorts first by `order_date`, then by `geo.country_iso_code`.
+
[role="screenshot"]
image::images/document-explorer-multi-field.png[Multi field sort in Document Explorer, width="75%"]

. To change the order of a multi-field sort, select a field, and then drag it to the new location.

[float]
[[document-explorer-compare-data]]
=== Compare data

Select specific documents to compare a subset of data.

. Select the checkboxes of the documents that you want to compare.

. Click the *documents selected* link, and then choose *Show selected documents only*.
+
[role="screenshot"]
image::images/document-explorer-compare-data.png[Multi field sort in Document Explorer, width="75%"]

[float]
[[document-explorer-expand-documents]]
=== Expand documents

Dive into an individual document to view its fields and the documents that occurred before and after it.

. Click the expand icon.
. Scan through the fields and their values. If you find a field of interest, hover over its name for filters and other controls.
. To view documents that occurred before or after the event you are looking at, click <<discover-view-surrounding-documents,Surrounding documents>>.
. For direct access to a particular document, click <<discover-view-single-document,Single document>>.

[float]
[[document-explorer-columns]]
=== Reorder and resize columns

Adjust column order and size with drag and drop.

To reorder columns, do one of the following:

* Click *Columns*. In the pop-up, select the column you want to move and drag it to the new location.

* Click the header of the column you want to move. In the dropdown menu, click *Move left* or *Move right*.

To resize a column, drag the right edge of the column header until the column is the size that you want.

Column widths are stored with a saved search.  When you reuse your saved search in a dashboard, it displays the same way as it does in Discover.

[float]
[[document-explorer-full-screen]]
=== View in full screen mode

To view as much data as possible and eliminate distractions, click the fullscreen icon.

Commit message:

Updates images and minor tweaks to text

docs/discover/document-explorer.asciidoc, after:

[[document-explorer]]
== Document Explorer

beta::[]

*Discover* has a new *Document Explorer* with better data sorting,
resizable columns, and a full screen view.

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/document-explorer.png[Document Explorer with improved look over classic view]

To use the *Document Explorer* instead of the classic document table:

. Open *Discover*.
. In the toolbar, click *Options*, and then click *Try Document Explorer*.
. Turn off the classic view and save the changes.

[float]
[[document-explorer-sort-data]]
=== Sort data

Sort your data by one or more fields, in ascending or descending order.
The default sort is based on the time field, from new to old.

. In the *Document Explorer*, click the *field sorted* link.
+
[role="screenshot"]
image::images/document-explorer-sort-data.png[Pop-up in Document Explorer for sorting columns, width="75%"]

. In the pop-up, expand the dropdown menu to add more fields to the sort.
+
By default, columns in a multi-field are sorted in the order they are added.
This example sorts first by `order_date`, and then by `geo.country_iso_code`.
+
[role="screenshot"]
image::images/document-explorer-multi-field.png[Multi field sort in Document Explorer, width="75%"]

. To change the order of a multi-field sort, select a field in the pop-up, and then drag it to the new location.

[float]
[[document-explorer-compare-data]]
=== Compare data

Select specific documents to compare a subset of data.

. Select the checkboxes of the documents that you want to compare.

. Click the *documents selected* link, and then select *Show selected documents only*.
+
[role="screenshot"]
image::images/document-explorer-compare-data.png[Multi field sort in Document Explorer, width="75%"]

[float]
[[document-explorer-expand-documents]]
=== Expand documents

Dive into an individual document to view its fields and the documents that occurred before and after it.

. Click the expand icon.
+
[role="screenshot"]
image::images/document-explorer-expand.png[Multi field sort in Document Explorer]

. Scan through the fields and their values. If you find a field of interest,
click the actions icon for filters and other controls.
. To view documents that occurred before or after the event you are looking at, click <<discover-view-surrounding-documents,Surrounding documents>>.
. For direct access to a particular document, click <<discover-view-single-document,Single document>>.

[float]
[[document-explorer-columns]]
=== Reorder and resize columns

Reorder and resize columns in the *Document Explorer* with drag and drop.

To reorder columns, do one of the following:

* Click *Columns*. In the pop-up, select the column you want to move and drag it to the new location.

* Click the header of the column you want to move. In the dropdown menu, click *Move left* or *Move right*.

To resize a column, drag the right edge of the column header until the column is the size that you want.

Column widths are stored with a saved search.  When you reuse your saved search in a dashboard, it displays the same way as it does in Discover.

[float]
[[document-explorer-full-screen]]
=== View in full screen mode

To view as much data as possible and eliminate distractions, click the fullscreen icon
image:images/fullscreen-icon.png[icon to display the Document Explorer in fullscreen mode].
