docs/discover/search-sessions.asciidoc, before:

[[search-sessions]]
== Run a search session in the background

Sometimes you might need to search through large amounts of data, no matter
how long the search takes.
Consider a threat hunting scenario, where you need to search through years of data.
You can save a long-running search, so {kib} processes your request in the
background, and you can continue your work.

Save your search session from *Discover* or *Dashboard*,
and when your session is complete, view and manage it in *Stack Management*.
Search sessions are <<search-session-settings-kb,enabled by default>>.

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/search-session.png[Search Session indicator displaying the current state of the search, which you can click to stop or save a running Search Session ]


[float]
==== Requirements


* To save a session, you must have permissions for *Discover* and *Dashboard*,
and the <<kibana-feature-privileges, search sessions subfeature>>.

* To view and restore a saved session, you must have access to *Stack Management*.

[float]
==== Example: Save a search session

You’re trying to understand a trend you see on a dashboard. You
need to look at several years of data, currently in
{ref}/data-tiers.html#cold-tier[cold storage],
but you don’t have time to wait. You want {kib} to
continue working in the background, so tomorrow you can
open your browser and pick up where you left off.

. Load your dashboard.
+
Your search session begins automatically.
The icon after the dashboard title displays the current state of the search session.
A clock icon indicates the search session is in progress.
A checkmark indicates that the search session is complete.

. To continue a search in the background, click the clock icon,
and then click *Save session*.
+
[role="screenshot"]
image::images/search-session-awhile.png[Search Session indicator displaying the current state of the search, which you can click to stop or save a running Search Session, width=75% ]
+
Once you save a search session, you can start a new search,
navigate to a different application, or close the browser.

. To view your saved searches, open the main menu, and then click
*Stack Management > Search Sessions*.
For a saved or completed session, you can also open this view from the search sessions popup.

+
[role="screenshot"]
image::images/search-sessions-menu.png[Search Sessions management view with actions for inspecting, extending, and deleting a session. ]

. Use the edit menu in *Search Sessions* to:
* *Inspect* the queries and filters that makeup the session.
* *Edit the name* of a session.
* *Extend* the expiration of a completed session.
* *Delete* a session.

. To restore a search session, click its name in the *Search Sessions* view.
+
You're returned to the place from where you started the search session. The data is the same, but
behaves differently:
+
* Relative dates are converted to absolute dates.
* Panning and zooming is disabled for maps.
* Changing a filter, query, or drilldown starts a new search session, which can be slow.

[float]
==== Limitations

Some visualization features do not fully support background search sessions. When
you restore a dashboard, panels with unsupported features won't load immediately, but instead
send out additional
data requests, which can take a while to complete.
The *Your search session is still running* warning appears.
You can either wait for these additional requests to complete or come back to the dashboard later
when all data requests have finished.

A panel on a dashboard can behave like this if one of the following features is used:

**Lens**

* A *top values* dimension with an enabled *Group other values as "Other"* setting.
This is configurable in the *Advanced* section of the dimension.
* An *intervals* dimension.

**Aggregation-based** visualizations

* A *terms* aggregation with an enabled *Group other values in separate bucket* setting.
* A *histogram* aggregation.

**Maps**

* Layers using joins, blended layers, or tracks layers.

Commit message:

Deprecate search session documentation (#192224)
## Summary

Resolves https://github.com/elastic/kibana/issues/186334.
(See https://github.com/elastic/kibana/issues/187923 and
https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/188037.)

Updates the documentation to have a message that search sessions are
deprecated and will be removed.

docs/discover/search-sessions.asciidoc, after:

[[search-sessions]]
== Run a search session in the background

deprecated::[8.15.0,Search Sessions are deprecated and will be removed in a future version.]

Sometimes you might need to search through large amounts of data, no matter
how long the search takes.
Consider a threat hunting scenario, where you need to search through years of data.
You can save a long-running search, so {kib} processes your request in the
background, and you can continue your work.

Save your search session from *Discover* or *Dashboard*,
and when your session is complete, view and manage it in *Stack Management*.
Search sessions are <<search-session-settings-kb,enabled by default>>.

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/search-session.png[Search Session indicator displaying the current state of the search, which you can click to stop or save a running Search Session ]


[float]
==== Requirements


* To save a session, you must have permissions for *Discover* and *Dashboard*,
and the <<kibana-feature-privileges, search sessions subfeature>>.

* To view and restore a saved session, you must have access to *Stack Management*.

[float]
==== Example: Save a search session

You’re trying to understand a trend you see on a dashboard. You
need to look at several years of data, currently in
{ref}/data-tiers.html#cold-tier[cold storage],
but you don’t have time to wait. You want {kib} to
continue working in the background, so tomorrow you can
open your browser and pick up where you left off.

. Load your dashboard.
+
Your search session begins automatically.
The icon after the dashboard title displays the current state of the search session.
A clock icon indicates the search session is in progress.
A checkmark indicates that the search session is complete.

. To continue a search in the background, click the clock icon,
and then click *Save session*.
+
[role="screenshot"]
image::images/search-session-awhile.png[Search Session indicator displaying the current state of the search, which you can click to stop or save a running Search Session, width=75% ]
+
Once you save a search session, you can start a new search,
navigate to a different application, or close the browser.

. To view your saved searches, open the main menu, and then click
*Stack Management > Search Sessions*.
For a saved or completed session, you can also open this view from the search sessions popup.

+
[role="screenshot"]
image::images/search-sessions-menu.png[Search Sessions management view with actions for inspecting, extending, and deleting a session. ]

. Use the edit menu in *Search Sessions* to:
* *Inspect* the queries and filters that makeup the session.
* *Edit the name* of a session.
* *Extend* the expiration of a completed session.
* *Delete* a session.

. To restore a search session, click its name in the *Search Sessions* view.
+
You're returned to the place from where you started the search session. The data is the same, but
behaves differently:
+
* Relative dates are converted to absolute dates.
* Panning and zooming is disabled for maps.
* Changing a filter, query, or drilldown starts a new search session, which can be slow.

[float]
==== Limitations

Some visualization features do not fully support background search sessions. When
you restore a dashboard, panels with unsupported features won't load immediately, but instead
send out additional
data requests, which can take a while to complete.
The *Your search session is still running* warning appears.
You can either wait for these additional requests to complete or come back to the dashboard later
when all data requests have finished.

A panel on a dashboard can behave like this if one of the following features is used:

**Lens**

* A *top values* dimension with an enabled *Group other values as "Other"* setting.
This is configurable in the *Advanced* section of the dimension.
* An *intervals* dimension.

**Aggregation-based** visualizations

* A *terms* aggregation with an enabled *Group other values in separate bucket* setting.
* A *histogram* aggregation.

**Maps**

* Layers using joins, blended layers, or tracks layers.
