docs/discover/set-time-filter.asciidoc, before:

[[set-time-filter]]
== Setting the time filter
You can
set a time filter if your index contains time-based events and a time-field is
configured for the selected index pattern.
By default, the time filter is set to the last 15 minutes. You can use the time
picker to change the time filter, or select a specific time 
range in the histogram.


[float]
=== Filter with the time picker

To quickly select from popular time range options, click the calendar 
dropdown image:infrastructure/images/time-filter-calendar.png[]. 

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/Timepicker-View.png[Time picker menu]

With the time picker, you can choose from:

* *Quick select* to choose a recent time range, and use the back and forward arrows to move through the time ranges.
* *Commonly used* to choose a time range from options such as *Last 15 minutes*, *Today*, and *Week to date*.
* *Refresh every* to specify an auto-refresh rate.

For control over the start and end times, 
click the start time or end time in 
the bar next to the calendar dropdown. In this popup, 
you can select *Absolute*, *Relative* or *Now*,
and then specify the required options.


[float]
=== Filter from the histogram

You can set a time filter from the histogram in two ways:

* Click the bar that represents the time interval you want to zoom in on.
* Click and drag to view a specific timespan. You must start the selection with
the cursor over the background of the chart--the cursor changes to a plus sign
when you hover over a valid start point.

To use a different interval, click the dropdown and select an interval.

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/Histogram-Time.png[Time range selector in Histogram]

Commit message:

[DOCS] Changed time picker to time filter

docs/discover/set-time-filter.asciidoc, after:

[[set-time-filter]]
== Setting the time filter
You can
set a time filter if your index contains time-based events and a time-field is
configured for the selected index pattern.
By default, the time filter is set to the last 15 minutes. You can use the time
picker to change the time filter, or select a specific time 
range in the histogram.


[float]
=== Specify the time range

To quickly select from popular time range options, click the calendar 
dropdown image:infrastructure/images/time-filter-calendar.png[]. 

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/Timepicker-View.png[Time filter menu]

With the time filter, you can choose from:

* *Quick select* to choose a recent time range, and use the back and forward arrows to move through the time ranges.
* *Commonly used* to choose a time range from options such as *Last 15 minutes*, *Today*, and *Week to date*.
* *Recently used date ranges* to choose a previously selected data range that you recently used.
* *Refresh every* to specify an auto-refresh rate.

For control over the start and end times, 
click the start time or end time in 
the bar next to the calendar dropdown. In this popup, 
you can select *Absolute*, *Relative* or *Now*,
and then specify the required options.


[float]
=== Filter from the histogram

You can set a time filter from the histogram in two ways:

* Click the bar that represents the time interval you want to zoom in on.
* Click and drag to view a specific timespan. You must start the selection with
the cursor over the background of the chart--the cursor changes to a plus sign
when you hover over a valid start point.

To use a different interval, click the dropdown and select an interval.

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/Histogram-Time.png[Time range selector in Histogram]
