docs/visualize/choose-your-visualization.asciidoc, before:

[[choose-your-visualization]]
== Choose the visualization for your data

Choose from a variety of visualizations to best display your data.

[float]
[[area-chart]]
=== Area chart

Area charts show one or more quantities over time. In area charts, points are 
plotted and connected by lines to show the value of a quantity at several 
different times. 
 
With area charts, you can:

* Show trends in the data over time

* Compare two or more quantities 

* Display the magnitude of trends

Ready to create an area chart? Check out the <<area-chart-tutorial, area chart example>>.

[float]
[[visualize-controls]]
=== Controls
experimental[]

Controls allows you to add dropdown menus and range sliders to {kib} dashboards.

With Controls, you can:

* Interact with the data on your {kib} dashboard

* Watch your data change in real-time 

* Drill down into your data with filters

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/controls/controls_in_dashboard.png[]

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/visualize-controls.png[Controls with Flights Controls sample data]

Ready to add Controls to your dashboard? Check out the <<controls-tutorial, Controls example>>.

[float]
[[visualize-coordinate-map]]
=== Coordinate map

Mark areas of a geographic area based on the aggregation that you choose. For each bucket, a circle displays on the map, and the circle color indicates the value of the aggregation.

NOTE: Since the Maps application provides you with more functionality and is 
easier to use, it is recommended to use the Maps application instead of the 
coordinate map.

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/visualize-coordinate-map.png[]

[float]
[[visualize-data-table]]
=== Data table

Mellori’s section.

Data tables display your raw data in a tabular format.

//<image>

Ready to create a data table? Check out the <<data-table-tutorial, data example>>.

[float]
[[visualize-gauge]]
=== Gauge

The gauge visualization displays your data along a scale that changes color according to where your data falls on the expected scale.

Use the gauge visualization to:

* Compare values between a small number of variables

* Show how metric values relate to reference threshold values

* Determine how a specified field is performing versus how it is expected to perform

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/visualize-gauge.png[Gauge with Flights Total Flight Cancellations sample data]

Ready to create a gauge visualization? Check out the <<gauge-tutorial, gauge example>>.

[float]
[[visualize-goal]]
=== Goal

The goal visualization displays how your metric progresses toward a fixed goal. 

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/visualize-goal.png[Goal with eCommerce Orders sample data]

Ready to create a goal visualization? Check out the <<goal-tutorial, goal example>>.

[float]
[[visualize-heat-map]]
=== Heat map

Short description.

NOTE: Since the Maps application provides you with more functionality and is easier to use, it is recommended to use the Maps application instead of the heat Map.

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/visualize-heat-map.png[Heat map with Flights Origin Country vs. Destination Country sample data]

[[visualize-bar-chart]]
=== Horizontal and vertical bar charts

Bar charts show numerical comparisons across multiple categories. In bar charts, data is displayed using a number of bars that represent a particular category. Choose a horizontal or vertical bar chart, where the height or length of each bar is proportional to the value that the bar represents.

With bar charts, you can:

* Compare a large number of categories

* Display data that includes categories with negative values

* Easily identify the categories that represent the highest and lowest values

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/visualize-bar-chart.png[Vertical bar chart with Flights Delay Buckets sample data]

Ready to create a bar chart? Check out the <<bar-chart-tutorial, bar chart example>>.

[float]
[[visualize-line-chart]]
=== Line chart

Line charts show data trends over time.  In line charts, data is displayed as a series of data points that are connected by line segments.

With line charts, you can:

* Display data that changes over time

* Identify patterns of individual variables

* Compare patterns of multiple variables

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/visualize-line-chart.png[Line chart with eCommerce Sales by Category sample data]

Ready to create a line chart? Check out the <<line-chart-tutorial, line chart example>>.

[float]
[[visualize-maps-app]]
=== Maps

To create and style maps with multiple layers and indices, use the Maps application.  

For more information about the Maps application, refer to <<maps,Maps>>.

NOTE: Since the Maps application provides you with more functionality and is easier to use, it is recommended to use the Maps application instead of the Coordinate Map, Heat Map, and Region Map.

[role="screenshot"]
image::maps/images/sample_data_web_logs.png[]

[float]
[[visualize-markdown]]
=== Markdown

The Markdown widget is a text entry field that accepts GitHub-flavored Markdown text. You can click the *Help* link to go to the
https://help.github.com/articles/github-flavored-markdown/[help page] for GitHub flavored Markdown.

The Markdown widget is helpful for:

* Cool thing 1

* Cool thing 2

* Cool thing 3

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/visualize-markdown.png[Markdown with Flights Markdown Instructions sample data]

Ready to use the Markdown widget? Check out the <<markdown-tutorial, Markdown widget example>>.

[float]
[[visualize-metric]]
=== Metric

Mellori's section. 

The metric visualization displays a single numeric value for an aggregation.

Ready to create a metric visualization? Check out the <<metric-tutorial, metric example>>.

[float]
[[visualize-pie-chart]]
=== Pie chart

Pie charts show proportions of your data compared to a total. In pie charts, each slice represents a data category, and the slice size is proportional to the quantity is represents.

With pie charts, you can:

* Show comparisons between multiple categories

* Illustrate the dominance of one category over the others

* Show percentage or proportional data

Ready to create a pie chart? Check out the <<pie-chart-tutorial, pie chart example>>.

[float]
[[visualize-region-map]]
=== Region map

Short description.

NOTE: Since the Maps application provides you with more functionality and is easier to use, it is recommended to use the Maps application instead of the region map.

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/visualize-region-map.png[Region map with Flights Origin Country Ticket Prices sample data]

[float]
[[visualize-tsvb]]
=== TSVB

TSVB is a time series data visualizer that allows you to use the full power of the 
Elasticsearch aggregation framework. With TSVB, you can combine an infinite 
number of aggregations to display complex data.

NOTE: In Elasticsearch version 7.3.0 and later, the time series data visualizer is now referred to as TSVB instead of Time Series Visual Builder.

TSVB comes with these types of visualizations:

Time Series:: A histogram visualization that supports area, line, bar, and steps along with multiple y-axis.

[role="screenshot"]
image:images/tsvb-screenshot.png["Time series visualization"]

Metric:: A metric that displays the latest number in a data series.

[role="screenshot"]
image:images/tsvb-metric.png["Metric visualization"]

Top N:: A horizontal bar chart where the y-axis is based on a series of metrics, and the x-axis is the latest value in the series.

[role="screenshot"]
image:images/tsvb-top-n.png["Top N visualization"]

Gauge:: A single value gauge visualization based on the latest value in a series.

[role="screenshot"]
image:images/tsvb-gauge.png["Gauge visualization"]

Markdown:: Edit the data using using Markdown text and Mustache template syntax.

[role="screenshot"]
image:images/tsvb-markdown.png["Markdown visualization"]

Table:: Display data from multiple time series by defining the field group to show in the rows, and the columns of data to display.

[role="screenshot"]
image:images/tsvb-table.png["Table visualization"]

Ready to create a TSVB visualization? Check out the <<tsvb-tutorial, TSVB tutorial>>.

[float]
[[visualize-tag-cloud]]
=== Tag cloud

Tag clouds are graphical representations of how frequently a work appears in a source text.

With tag cloud, you can:

* Easily produce a summary of large documents

* Create art for a topic

* Visualize data tables and surveys

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/visualize-tag-cloud.png[Tag cloud with Flights Destination Weather sample data]

Ready to create a tag cloud? Check out the <<tag-cloud-tutorial, tag cloud example>>.

[float]
[[visualize-timelion]]
=== Timelion

Timelion is a time series data visualizer that enables you to combine totally
independent data sources within a single visualization. It's driven by a simple expression language you use to retrieve time series data, perform calculations to tease out the answers to complex questions, and visualize the results.

For example, Timelion enables you to easily get the answers to questions like:

* <<time-series-intro, What is the real-time percentage of CPU time spent in user space to the results offset by one hour?>>

* <<mathematical-functions-intro, What does my inbound and outbound network traffic look like?>>

* <<timelion-conditional-intro, How much memory is my system actually using?>>

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/timelion-customize04.png[]

Commit message:

Add data table visualization tutorial

docs/visualize/choose-your-visualization.asciidoc, after:

[[choose-your-visualization]]
== Choose the visualization for your data

Choose from a variety of visualizations to best display your data.

[float]
[[area-chart]]
=== Area chart

Area charts show one or more quantities over time. In area charts, points are
plotted and connected by lines to show the value of a quantity at several
different times.

With area charts, you can:

* Show trends in the data over time

* Compare two or more quantities

* Display the magnitude of trends

Ready to create an area chart? Check out the <<area-chart-tutorial, area chart example>>.

[float]
[[visualize-controls]]
=== Controls
experimental[]

Controls allows you to add dropdown menus and range sliders to {kib} dashboards.

With Controls, you can:

* Interact with the data on your {kib} dashboard

* Watch your data change in real-time

* Drill down into your data with filters

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/controls/controls_in_dashboard.png[]

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/visualize-controls.png[Controls with Flights Controls sample data]

Ready to add Controls to your dashboard? Check out the <<controls-tutorial, Controls example>>.

[float]
[[visualize-coordinate-map]]
=== Coordinate map

Mark areas of a geographic area based on the aggregation that you choose. For each bucket, a circle displays on the map, and the circle color indicates the value of the aggregation.

NOTE: Since the Maps application provides you with more functionality and is
easier to use, it is recommended to use the Maps application instead of the
coordinate map.

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/visualize-coordinate-map.png[]

[float]
[[visualize-data-table]]
=== Data table


Data tables display your raw data or aggregation results in a tabular format.

You can use them to:

* Display server configuration details

* Track counts, min, or max values for a specific field

* Monitor the status of key services

[role="screenshot"]
image:images/visualize-data-table-tutorial02.png[Data table with web logs sample data]


Ready to create a data table? Check out the <<data-table-tutorial, data example>>.

[float]
[[visualize-gauge]]
=== Gauge

The gauge visualization displays your data along a scale that changes color according to where your data falls on the expected scale.

Use the gauge visualization to:

* Compare values between a small number of variables

* Show how metric values relate to reference threshold values

* Determine how a specified field is performing versus how it is expected to perform

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/visualize-gauge.png[Gauge with Flights Total Flight Cancellations sample data]

Ready to create a gauge visualization? Check out the <<gauge-tutorial, gauge example>>.

[float]
[[visualize-goal]]
=== Goal

The goal visualization displays how your metric progresses toward a fixed goal.

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/visualize-goal.png[Goal with eCommerce Orders sample data]

Ready to create a goal visualization? Check out the <<goal-tutorial, goal example>>.

[float]
[[visualize-heat-map]]
=== Heat map

Short description.

NOTE: Since the Maps application provides you with more functionality and is easier to use, it is recommended to use the Maps application instead of the heat Map.

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/visualize-heat-map.png[Heat map with Flights Origin Country vs. Destination Country sample data]

[[visualize-bar-chart]]
=== Horizontal and vertical bar charts

Bar charts show numerical comparisons across multiple categories. In bar charts, data is displayed using a number of bars that represent a particular category. Choose a horizontal or vertical bar chart, where the height or length of each bar is proportional to the value that the bar represents.

With bar charts, you can:

* Compare a large number of categories

* Display data that includes categories with negative values

* Easily identify the categories that represent the highest and lowest values

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/visualize-bar-chart.png[Vertical bar chart with Flights Delay Buckets sample data]

Ready to create a bar chart? Check out the <<bar-chart-tutorial, bar chart example>>.

[float]
[[visualize-line-chart]]
=== Line chart

Line charts show data trends over time.  In line charts, data is displayed as a series of data points that are connected by line segments.

With line charts, you can:

* Display data that changes over time

* Identify patterns of individual variables

* Compare patterns of multiple variables

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/visualize-line-chart.png[Line chart with eCommerce Sales by Category sample data]

Ready to create a line chart? Check out the <<line-chart-tutorial, line chart example>>.

[float]
[[visualize-maps-app]]
=== Maps

To create and style maps with multiple layers and indices, use the Maps application.

For more information about the Maps application, refer to <<maps,Maps>>.

NOTE: Since the Maps application provides you with more functionality and is easier to use, it is recommended to use the Maps application instead of the Coordinate Map, Heat Map, and Region Map.

[role="screenshot"]
image::maps/images/sample_data_web_logs.png[]

[float]
[[visualize-markdown]]
=== Markdown

The Markdown widget is a text entry field that accepts GitHub-flavored Markdown text. You can click the *Help* link to go to the
https://help.github.com/articles/github-flavored-markdown/[help page] for GitHub flavored Markdown.

The Markdown widget is helpful for:

* Cool thing 1

* Cool thing 2

* Cool thing 3

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/visualize-markdown.png[Markdown with Flights Markdown Instructions sample data]

Ready to use the Markdown widget? Check out the <<markdown-tutorial, Markdown widget example>>.

[float]
[[visualize-metric]]
=== Metric

Mellori's section.

The metric visualization displays a single numeric value for an aggregation.

Ready to create a metric visualization? Check out the <<metric-tutorial, metric example>>.

[float]
[[visualize-pie-chart]]
=== Pie chart

Pie charts show proportions of your data compared to a total. In pie charts, each slice represents a data category, and the slice size is proportional to the quantity is represents.

With pie charts, you can:

* Show comparisons between multiple categories

* Illustrate the dominance of one category over the others

* Show percentage or proportional data

Ready to create a pie chart? Check out the <<pie-chart-tutorial, pie chart example>>.

[float]
[[visualize-region-map]]
=== Region map

Short description.

NOTE: Since the Maps application provides you with more functionality and is easier to use, it is recommended to use the Maps application instead of the region map.

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/visualize-region-map.png[Region map with Flights Origin Country Ticket Prices sample data]

[float]
[[visualize-tsvb]]
=== TSVB

TSVB is a time series data visualizer that allows you to use the full power of the
Elasticsearch aggregation framework. With TSVB, you can combine an infinite
number of aggregations to display complex data.

NOTE: In Elasticsearch version 7.3.0 and later, the time series data visualizer is now referred to as TSVB instead of Time Series Visual Builder.

TSVB comes with these types of visualizations:

Time Series:: A histogram visualization that supports area, line, bar, and steps along with multiple y-axis.

[role="screenshot"]
image:images/tsvb-screenshot.png["Time series visualization"]

Metric:: A metric that displays the latest number in a data series.

[role="screenshot"]
image:images/tsvb-metric.png["Metric visualization"]

Top N:: A horizontal bar chart where the y-axis is based on a series of metrics, and the x-axis is the latest value in the series.

[role="screenshot"]
image:images/tsvb-top-n.png["Top N visualization"]

Gauge:: A single value gauge visualization based on the latest value in a series.

[role="screenshot"]
image:images/tsvb-gauge.png["Gauge visualization"]

Markdown:: Edit the data using using Markdown text and Mustache template syntax.

[role="screenshot"]
image:images/tsvb-markdown.png["Markdown visualization"]

Table:: Display data from multiple time series by defining the field group to show in the rows, and the columns of data to display.

[role="screenshot"]
image:images/tsvb-table.png["Table visualization"]

Ready to create a TSVB visualization? Check out the <<tsvb-tutorial, TSVB tutorial>>.

[float]
[[visualize-tag-cloud]]
=== Tag cloud

Tag clouds are graphical representations of how frequently a work appears in a source text.

With tag cloud, you can:

* Easily produce a summary of large documents

* Create art for a topic

* Visualize data tables and surveys

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/visualize-tag-cloud.png[Tag cloud with Flights Destination Weather sample data]

Ready to create a tag cloud? Check out the <<tag-cloud-tutorial, tag cloud example>>.

[float]
[[visualize-timelion]]
=== Timelion

Timelion is a time series data visualizer that enables you to combine totally
independent data sources within a single visualization. It's driven by a simple expression language you use to retrieve time series data, perform calculations to tease out the answers to complex questions, and visualize the results.

For example, Timelion enables you to easily get the answers to questions like:

* <<time-series-intro, What is the real-time percentage of CPU time spent in user space to the results offset by one hour?>>

* <<mathematical-functions-intro, What does my inbound and outbound network traffic look like?>>

* <<timelion-conditional-intro, How much memory is my system actually using?>>

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/timelion-customize04.png[]
