docs/management/ingest-pipelines/ingest-pipelines.asciidoc, before:

[role="xpack"]
[[ingest-node-pipelines]]
== Ingest Node Pipelines

*Ingest Node Pipelines* enables you to create and manage {es}
pipelines that perform common transformations and
enrichments on your data.  For example, you might remove a field,
rename an existing field, or set a new field.

You’ll find *Ingest Node Pipelines* in *Stack Management > Ingest*. With this feature, you can:

* View a list of your pipelines and drill down into details.
* Create a pipeline that defines a series of tasks, known as processors.
* Test a pipeline before feeding it with real data to ensure the pipeline works as expected.
* Delete a pipeline that is no longer needed.

[role="screenshot"]
image:management/ingest-pipelines/images/ingest-pipeline-list.png["Ingest node pipeline list"]

[float]
=== Required permissions

The minimum required permissions to access *Ingest Node Pipelines* are
the `manage_pipeline` and `cluster:monitor/nodes/info` cluster privileges.

You can add these privileges in *Stack Management > Security > Roles*.

[role="screenshot"]
image:management/ingest-pipelines/images/ingest-pipeline-privileges.png["Privileges required for Ingest Node Pipelines"]

[float]
[[ingest-node-pipelines-manage]]
=== Manage pipelines

From the list view, you can to drill down into the details of a pipeline.
To
edit, clone, or delete a pipeline, use the *Actions* menu.

If you don’t have any pipelines, you can create one using the
*Create pipeline* form.  You’ll define processors to transform documents
in a specific way. To handle exceptions, you can optionally define
failure processors to execute immediately after a failed processor.
Before creating the pipeline, you can verify it provides the expected output.

[float]
[[ingest-node-pipelines-example]]
==== Example:  Create a pipeline

In this example, you’ll create a pipeline to handle server logs in the
Common Log Format. The log looks similar to this:

[source,js]
----------------------------------
212.87.37.154 - - [05/May/2020:16:21:15 +0000] \"GET /favicon.ico HTTP/1.1\"
200 3638 \"-\" \"Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10_11_6)
AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/52.0.2743.116 Safari/537.36\"
----------------------------------

The log contains an IP address, timestamp, and user agent. You want to give
these three items their own field in {es} for fast search and visualization.
You also want to know where the request is coming from.

. In *Ingest Node Pipelines*, click *Create a pipeline*.
. Provide a name and description for the pipeline.
. Add a grok processor to parse the log message:

.. Click *Add a processor* and select the *Grok* processor type.
.. Set the field input to `message` and enter the following grok pattern:
+
[source,js]
----------------------------------
%{IPORHOST:clientip} %{USER:ident} %{USER:auth} \[%{HTTPDATE:timestamp}\] "%{WORD:verb} %{DATA:request} HTTP/%{NUMBER:httpversion}" %{NUMBER:response:int} (?:-|%{NUMBER:bytes:int}) %{QS:referrer} %{QS:agent}
----------------------------------
+
.. Click *Update* to save the processor.

. Add processors to map the date, IP, and user agent fields.

.. Map the appropriate field to each processor type:
+
--
* **Date**: `timestamp`
* **GeoIP**: `clientip`
* **User agent**: `agent`

For the **Date** processor, you also need to specify the date format you want to use: `dd/MMM/YYYY:HH:mm:ss Z`.
--
Your form should look similar to this:
+
[role="screenshot"]
image:management/ingest-pipelines/images/ingest-pipeline-processor.png["Processors for Ingest Node Pipelines"]
+
Alternatively, you can click the **Import processors** link and define the processors as JSON:
+
[source,js]
----------------------------------
{
  "processors": [
    {
      "grok": {
        "field": "message",
        "patterns": ["%{IPORHOST:clientip} %{USER:ident} %{USER:auth} \\[%{HTTPDATE:timestamp}\\] \"%{WORD:verb} %{DATA:request} HTTP/%{NUMBER:httpversion}\" %{NUMBER:response:int} (?:-|%{NUMBER:bytes:int}) %{QS:referrer} %{QS:agent}"]
      }
    },
    {
      "date": {
        "field": "timestamp",
        "formats": [ "dd/MMM/YYYY:HH:mm:ss Z" ]
      }
    },
    {
      "geoip": {
        "field": "clientip"
      }
    },
    {
      "user_agent": {
        "field": "agent"
      }
    }
  ]
}
----------------------------------
+
The four {ref}/ingest-processors.html[processors] will run sequentially:
{ref}/grok-processor.html[grok], {ref}/date-processor.html[date],
{ref}/geoip-processor.html[geoip], and {ref}/user-agent-processor.html[user_agent]. You can reorder processors using the arrow icon next to each processor. 

. To test the pipeline to verify that it produces the expected results, click *Add documents*.

. In the *Documents* tab, provide a sample document for testing:
+
[source,js]
----------------------------------
[
  {
    "_source": {
      "message": "212.87.37.154 - - [05/May/2020:16:21:15 +0000] \"GET /favicon.ico HTTP/1.1\" 200 3638 \"-\" \"Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10_11_6) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/52.0.2743.116 Safari/537.36\""
    }
  }
]
----------------------------------

. Click *Run the pipeline* and check if the pipeline worked as expected.
+
You can also
view the verbose output and refresh the output from this view.

. If everything looks correct, close the panel, and then click *Create pipeline*.
+
At this point, you’re ready to use the Elasticsearch index API to load
the logs data.

. In the Kibana Console, index a document with the pipeline
you created.
+
[source,js]
----------------------------------
PUT my-index/_doc/1?pipeline=access_logs
{
  "message": "212.87.37.154 - - [05/May/2020:16:21:15 +0000] \"GET /favicon.ico HTTP/1.1\" 200 3638 \"-\" \"Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10_11_6) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/52.0.2743.116 Safari/537.36\""
}
----------------------------------

. To verify, run:
+
[source,js]
----------------------------------
GET my-index/_doc/1
----------------------------------

Commit message:

[7.x] [DOCS] 7.10 Core UI changes (#80407) (#81491)
* [DOCS] 7.10 screenCore UI changes

* Kibana access options

* Removed Kibana from Set up Kibana

* Removed rogue symbols

* Update docs/spaces/index.asciidoc

Co-authored-by: gchaps <33642766+gchaps@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update docs/management/managing-beats.asciidoc

Co-authored-by: gchaps <33642766+gchaps@users.noreply.github.com>

* Review comments

* Update docs/user/introduction.asciidoc

Co-authored-by: gchaps <33642766+gchaps@users.noreply.github.com>

* Review comments

* Changed menu to main menu

Co-authored-by: gchaps <33642766+gchaps@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/management/ingest-pipelines/ingest-pipelines.asciidoc, after:

[role="xpack"]
[[ingest-node-pipelines]]
== Ingest Node Pipelines

*Ingest Node Pipelines* enables you to create and manage {es}
pipelines that perform common transformations and
enrichments on your data.  For example, you might remove a field,
rename an existing field, or set a new field.

To begin, open the main menu, then click *Stack Management > Ingest Node Pipelines*. With *Ingest Node Pipelines*, you can:

* View a list of your pipelines and drill down into details.
* Create a pipeline that defines a series of tasks, known as processors.
* Test a pipeline before feeding it with real data to ensure the pipeline works as expected.
* Delete a pipeline that is no longer needed.

[role="screenshot"]
image:management/ingest-pipelines/images/ingest-pipeline-list.png["Ingest node pipeline list"]

[float]
=== Required permissions

The minimum required permissions to access *Ingest Node Pipelines* are
the `manage_pipeline` and `cluster:monitor/nodes/info` cluster privileges.

To add privileges, open the main menu, then click *Stack Management > Roles*.

[role="screenshot"]
image:management/ingest-pipelines/images/ingest-pipeline-privileges.png["Privileges required for Ingest Node Pipelines"]

[float]
[[ingest-node-pipelines-manage]]
=== Manage pipelines

From the list view, you can to drill down into the details of a pipeline.
To
edit, clone, or delete a pipeline, use the *Actions* menu.

If you don’t have any pipelines, you can create one using the
*Create pipeline* form.  You’ll define processors to transform documents
in a specific way. To handle exceptions, you can optionally define
failure processors to execute immediately after a failed processor.
Before creating the pipeline, you can verify it provides the expected output.

[float]
[[ingest-node-pipelines-example]]
==== Example:  Create a pipeline

In this example, you’ll create a pipeline to handle server logs in the
Common Log Format. The log looks similar to this:

[source,js]
----------------------------------
212.87.37.154 - - [05/May/2020:16:21:15 +0000] \"GET /favicon.ico HTTP/1.1\"
200 3638 \"-\" \"Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10_11_6)
AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/52.0.2743.116 Safari/537.36\"
----------------------------------

The log contains an IP address, timestamp, and user agent. You want to give
these three items their own field in {es} for fast search and visualization.
You also want to know where the request is coming from.

. In *Ingest Node Pipelines*, click *Create a pipeline*.
. Provide a name and description for the pipeline.
. Add a grok processor to parse the log message:

.. Click *Add a processor* and select the *Grok* processor type.
.. Set the field input to `message` and enter the following grok pattern:
+
[source,js]
----------------------------------
%{IPORHOST:clientip} %{USER:ident} %{USER:auth} \[%{HTTPDATE:timestamp}\] "%{WORD:verb} %{DATA:request} HTTP/%{NUMBER:httpversion}" %{NUMBER:response:int} (?:-|%{NUMBER:bytes:int}) %{QS:referrer} %{QS:agent}
----------------------------------
+
.. Click *Update* to save the processor.

. Add processors to map the date, IP, and user agent fields.

.. Map the appropriate field to each processor type:
+
--
* **Date**: `timestamp`
* **GeoIP**: `clientip`
* **User agent**: `agent`

For the **Date** processor, you also need to specify the date format you want to use: `dd/MMM/YYYY:HH:mm:ss Z`.
--
Your form should look similar to this:
+
[role="screenshot"]
image:management/ingest-pipelines/images/ingest-pipeline-processor.png["Processors for Ingest Node Pipelines"]
+
Alternatively, you can click the **Import processors** link and define the processors as JSON:
+
[source,js]
----------------------------------
{
  "processors": [
    {
      "grok": {
        "field": "message",
        "patterns": ["%{IPORHOST:clientip} %{USER:ident} %{USER:auth} \\[%{HTTPDATE:timestamp}\\] \"%{WORD:verb} %{DATA:request} HTTP/%{NUMBER:httpversion}\" %{NUMBER:response:int} (?:-|%{NUMBER:bytes:int}) %{QS:referrer} %{QS:agent}"]
      }
    },
    {
      "date": {
        "field": "timestamp",
        "formats": [ "dd/MMM/YYYY:HH:mm:ss Z" ]
      }
    },
    {
      "geoip": {
        "field": "clientip"
      }
    },
    {
      "user_agent": {
        "field": "agent"
      }
    }
  ]
}
----------------------------------
+
The four {ref}/ingest-processors.html[processors] will run sequentially:
{ref}/grok-processor.html[grok], {ref}/date-processor.html[date],
{ref}/geoip-processor.html[geoip], and {ref}/user-agent-processor.html[user_agent]. You can reorder processors using the arrow icon next to each processor. 

. To test the pipeline to verify that it produces the expected results, click *Add documents*.

. In the *Documents* tab, provide a sample document for testing:
+
[source,js]
----------------------------------
[
  {
    "_source": {
      "message": "212.87.37.154 - - [05/May/2020:16:21:15 +0000] \"GET /favicon.ico HTTP/1.1\" 200 3638 \"-\" \"Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10_11_6) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/52.0.2743.116 Safari/537.36\""
    }
  }
]
----------------------------------

. Click *Run the pipeline* and check if the pipeline worked as expected.
+
You can also
view the verbose output and refresh the output from this view.

. If everything looks correct, close the panel, and then click *Create pipeline*.
+
At this point, you’re ready to use the Elasticsearch index API to load
the logs data.

. In the Kibana Console, index a document with the pipeline
you created.
+
[source,js]
----------------------------------
PUT my-index/_doc/1?pipeline=access_logs
{
  "message": "212.87.37.154 - - [05/May/2020:16:21:15 +0000] \"GET /favicon.ico HTTP/1.1\" 200 3638 \"-\" \"Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10_11_6) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/52.0.2743.116 Safari/537.36\""
}
----------------------------------

. To verify, run:
+
[source,js]
----------------------------------
GET my-index/_doc/1
----------------------------------
