x-pack/legacy/plugins/apm/readme.md, before:

# Documentation for APM UI developers

### Setup local environment

#### Kibana
```
git clone git@github.com:elastic/kibana.git
cd kibana/
yarn kbn bootstrap
yarn start
```

#### APM Server, Elasticsearch and data

To access an elasticsearch instance that has live data you have two options:

##### A. Connect to Elasticsearch on Cloud (internal devs only)
Add the following to the kibana config file (config/kibana.dev.yml):
https://p.elstc.co/paste/fqorvbJi#Yf6tQ8Bxk4nYMWpoPXr1iZ-QnJ1EbKBEM+H/kdPsmBg

##### B. Start Elastic Stack and APM data generators
```
git clone git@github.com:elastic/apm-integration-testing.git
cd apm-integration-testing/
./scripts/compose.py start master --all --no-kibana
```
*Docker Compose is required*

### Test

Note: Run the following commands from `kibana/x-pack`.

#### Run tests
```
node scripts/jest.js plugins/apm --watch
```

#### Update snapshots
```
node scripts/jest.js plugins/apm --updateSnapshot
```
---

### Linting

Note: Run the following commands from `kibana/`.

#### Prettier

```
yarn prettier  "./x-pack/legacy/plugins/apm/**/*.{tsx,ts,js}" --write
```

#### ESLint
```
yarn eslint ./x-pack/legacy/plugins/apm --fix
```

Commit message:

[APM] Minimal e2e setup with Cypress (#43463)
* APM E2E with own package.json

* Ignore cypress folder

* Add cypress/apm as separate ts project

* Exclude from parent tsconfig

* Add p-limit as dep

* Fix readme

* Fix prettier command

* Resolve feedback

* Move date range into `loginAndWaitForPage`

* Remove redundant file

* Fixed lint errors

* Remove uneeded `data-cy` attributes

* Fix snapshots

x-pack/legacy/plugins/apm/readme.md, after:

# Documentation for APM UI developers

### Setup local environment

#### Kibana

```
git clone git@github.com:elastic/kibana.git
cd kibana/
yarn kbn bootstrap
yarn start
```

#### APM Server, Elasticsearch and data

To access an elasticsearch instance that has live data you have two options:

##### A. Connect to Elasticsearch on Cloud (internal devs only)

Add the following to the kibana config file (config/kibana.dev.yml):
https://p.elstc.co/paste/fqorvbJi#Yf6tQ8Bxk4nYMWpoPXr1iZ-QnJ1EbKBEM+H/kdPsmBg

##### B. Start Elastic Stack and APM data generators

```
git clone git@github.com:elastic/apm-integration-testing.git
cd apm-integration-testing/
./scripts/compose.py start master --all --no-kibana
```

_Docker Compose is required_

### Unit testing

Note: Run the following commands from `kibana/x-pack`.

#### Run unit tests

```
node scripts/jest.js plugins/apm --watch
```

#### Update snapshots

```
node scripts/jest.js plugins/apm --updateSnapshot
```

### Cypress E2E tests

See the Cypress-specific [readme.md](cypress/README.md)

### Linting

_Note: Run the following commands from `kibana/`._

#### Prettier

```
yarn prettier  "./x-pack/legacy/plugins/apm/**/*.{tsx,ts,js}" --write
```

#### ESLint

```
yarn eslint ./x-pack/legacy/plugins/apm --fix
```
