docs/getting-started/quick-start-guide.asciidoc, before:

[[get-started]]
== Quick start

To quickly get up and running with {kib}, set up on Cloud, then add a sample data set that you can explore and analyze.

When you've finished, you'll know how to:

* <<explore-the-data,Explore the data with *Discover*.>>

* <<view-and-analyze-the-data,Gain insight into the data with *Dashboard*.>>

[float]
=== Before you begin 
When security is enabled, you must have `read`, `write`, and `manage` privileges on the `kibana_sample_data_*` indices. For more information, refer to {ref}/security-privileges.html[Security privileges].

[float]
[[set-up-on-cloud]]
== Set up on cloud

include::{docs-root}/shared/cloud/ess-getting-started.asciidoc[]

[float]
[[gs-get-data-into-kibana]]
== Add the sample data

Sample data sets come with sample visualizations, dashboards, and more to help you explore {kib} without adding your own data.

. From the home page, click *Try our sample data*.

. On the *Sample eCommerce orders* card, click *Add data*.
+
[role="screenshot"]
image::getting-started/images/add-sample-data.png[]

[float]
[[explore-the-data]]
== Explore the data

*Discover* displays an interactive histogram that shows the distribution of of data, or documents, over time, and a table that lists the fields for each document that matches the index. By default, all fields are shown for each matching document.

. Open the menu, then click *Discover*.

. Change the <<set-time-filter, time filter>> to *Last 7 days*.
+
[role="screenshot"]
image::images/tutorial-discover-2.png[]

. To focus in on the documents you want to view, use the <<kuery-query,{kib} Query Language>>. In the *KQL* search field, enter:
+
[source,text]
products.taxless_price >= 60 AND category : Women's Clothing
+
The query returns the women's clothing orders for $60 and more.
+
[role="screenshot"]
image::images/tutorial-discover-4.png[]

. Hover over the list of *Available fields*, then click *+* next to the fields you want to view in the table.
+
For example, when you add the *category* field, the table displays the product categories for the orders.
+
[role="screenshot"]
image::images/tutorial-discover-3.png[]
+
For more information, refer to <<discover, *Discover*>>.

[float]
[[view-and-analyze-the-data]]
== View and analyze the data

A dashboard is a collection of panels that you can use to view and analyze the data. Panels contain visualizations, interactive controls, Markdown, and more.

. Open the menu, then click *Dashboard*. 

. Click *[eCommerce] Revenue Dashboard*.
+
[role="screenshot"]
image::getting-started/images/tutorial-sample-dashboard.png[]

[float]
[[filter-and-query-the-data]]
=== Filter the data

To focus in on the data you want to view on the dashboard, use filters. 

. From the *Controls* visualization, make a selection from the *Manufacturer* and *Category* dropdowns, then click *Apply changes*.
+
For example, the following dashboard shows the data for women's clothing from Gnomehouse. 
+
[role="screenshot"]
image::getting-started/images/tutorial-sample-filter.png[]

. To manually add a filter, click *Add filter*, then specify the options.
+
For example, to view the orders for Wednesday, select *day_of_week* from the *Field* dropdown, select *is* from the *Operator* dropdown, then select *Wednesday* from the *Value* dropdown.
+
[role="screenshot"]
image::getting-started/images/tutorial-sample-filter2.png[]

. When you are done, remove the filters.
+
For more information, refer to <<dashboard,*Dashboard*>>.

[float]
[[create-a-visualization]]
=== Create a visualization

To create a treemap that shows the top regions and manufacturers, use *Lens*, then add the treemap to the dashboard.

. From the {kib} toolbar, click *Edit*, then click *Create new*.

. On the *New Visualization* window, click *Lens*.

. From the *Available fields* list, drag and drop the following fields to the visualization builder:

* *geoip.city_name*

* *manufacturer.keyword*
+
. From the visualization dropdown, select *Treemap*.
+
[role="screenshot"]
image::getting-started/images/tutorial-visualization-dropdown.png[Visualization dropdown with Treemap selected]

. Click *Save*.

. On the *Save Lens visualization*, enter a title and make sure *Add to Dashboard after saving* is selected, then click *Save and return*.
+
The treemap appears as the last visualization on the dashboard.
+
[role="screenshot"]
image::getting-started/images/tutorial-final-dashboard.gif[Final dashboard with new treemap visualization]
+
For more information, refer to <<lens, *Lens*>>.

[float]
[[quick-start-whats-next]]
== What's next?

If you are you ready to add your own data, refer to <<connect-to-elasticsearch,Add data to {kib}>>.

If you want to ingest your data, refer to {ingest-guide}/ingest-management-getting-started.html[Quick start: Get logs and metrics into the Elastic Stack].

Commit message:

[7.x] [DOCS] 7.10 Core UI changes (#80407) (#81491)
* [DOCS] 7.10 screenCore UI changes

* Kibana access options

* Removed Kibana from Set up Kibana

* Removed rogue symbols

* Update docs/spaces/index.asciidoc

Co-authored-by: gchaps <33642766+gchaps@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update docs/management/managing-beats.asciidoc

Co-authored-by: gchaps <33642766+gchaps@users.noreply.github.com>

* Review comments

* Update docs/user/introduction.asciidoc

Co-authored-by: gchaps <33642766+gchaps@users.noreply.github.com>

* Review comments

* Changed menu to main menu

Co-authored-by: gchaps <33642766+gchaps@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/getting-started/quick-start-guide.asciidoc, after:

[[get-started]]
== Quick start

To quickly get up and running with {kib}, set up on Cloud, then add a sample data set that you can explore and analyze.

When you've finished, you'll know how to:

* <<explore-the-data,Explore the data with *Discover*.>>

* <<view-and-analyze-the-data,Gain insight into the data with *Dashboard*.>>

[float]
=== Required privileges
When security is enabled, you must have `read`, `write`, and `manage` privileges on the `kibana_sample_data_*` indices. 
For more information, refer to {ref}/security-privileges.html[Security privileges].

[float]
[[set-up-on-cloud]]
== Set up on cloud

include::{docs-root}/shared/cloud/ess-getting-started.asciidoc[]

[float]
[[gs-get-data-into-kibana]]
== Add the sample data

Sample data sets come with sample visualizations, dashboards, and more to help you explore {kib} without adding your own data.

. From the home page, click *Try our sample data*.

. On the *Sample eCommerce orders* card, click *Add data*.
+
[role="screenshot"]
image::getting-started/images/add-sample-data.png[Add data UI]

[float]
[[explore-the-data]]
== Explore the data

*Discover* displays an interactive histogram that shows the distribution of of data, or documents, over time, and a table that lists the fields for each document that matches the index. By default, all fields are shown for each matching document.

. Open the main menu, then click *Discover*.

. Change the <<set-time-filter, time filter>> to *Last 7 days*.
+
[role="screenshot"]
image::images/tutorial-discover-2.png[]

. To focus in on the documents you want to view, use the <<kuery-query,{kib} Query Language>>. In the *KQL* search field, enter:
+
[source,text]
products.taxless_price >= 60 AND category : Women's Clothing
+
The query returns the women's clothing orders for $60 and more.
+
[role="screenshot"]
image::images/tutorial-discover-4.png[]

. Hover over the list of *Available fields*, then click *+* next to the fields you want to view in the table.
+
For example, when you add the *category* field, the table displays the product categories for the orders.
+
[role="screenshot"]
image::images/tutorial-discover-3.png[]
+
For more information, refer to <<discover, *Discover*>>.

[float]
[[view-and-analyze-the-data]]
== View and analyze the data

A dashboard is a collection of panels that you can use to view and analyze the data. Panels contain visualizations, interactive controls, Markdown, and more.

. Open the main menu, then click *Dashboard*. 

. Click *[eCommerce] Revenue Dashboard*.
+
[role="screenshot"]
image::getting-started/images/tutorial-sample-dashboard.png[]

[float]
[[filter-and-query-the-data]]
=== Filter the data

To focus in on the data you want to view on the dashboard, use filters. 

. From the *[eCommerce] Controls* panel, make a selection from the *Manufacturer* and *Category* dropdowns, then click *Apply changes*.
+
For example, the following dashboard shows the data for women's clothing from Gnomehouse. 
+
[role="screenshot"]
image::getting-started/images/tutorial-sample-filter.png[]

. To manually add a filter, click *Add filter*, then specify the options.
+
For example, to view the orders for Wednesday, select *day_of_week* from the *Field* dropdown, select *is* from the *Operator* dropdown, then select *Wednesday* from the *Value* dropdown.
+
[role="screenshot"]
image::getting-started/images/tutorial-sample-filter2.png[]

. When you are done, remove the filters.
+
For more information, refer to <<dashboard,*Dashboard*>>.

[float]
[[create-a-visualization]]
=== Create a visualization panel

To create a treemap panel that shows the top regions and manufacturers, use *Lens*, then add the treemap panel to the dashboard.

. From the toolbar, click *Edit*, then click *Create new*.

. On the *New Visualization* window, click *Lens*.

. From the *Available fields* list, drag and drop the following fields to the visualization builder:

* *geoip.city_name*

* *manufacturer.keyword*
+
. From the visualization dropdown, select *Treemap*.
+
[role="screenshot"]
image::getting-started/images/tutorial-visualization-dropdown.png[Visualization dropdown with Treemap selected]

. Click *Save*.

. On the *Save Lens visualization*, enter a title and make sure *Add to Dashboard after saving* is selected, then click *Save and return*.
+
The treemap appears as the last visualization panel on the dashboard.
+
[role="screenshot"]
image::getting-started/images/tutorial-final-dashboard.gif[Final dashboard with new treemap visualization]
+
For more information, refer to <<lens, *Lens*>>.

[float]
[[quick-start-whats-next]]
== What's next?

If you are you ready to add your own data, refer to <<connect-to-elasticsearch,Add data to {kib}>>.

If you want to ingest your data, refer to {ingest-guide}/ingest-management-getting-started.html[Quick start: Get logs and metrics into the Elastic Stack].
