docs/development/plugins/data/public/kibana-plugin-plugins-data-public.ikibanasearchresponse.md, before:

<!-- Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter. -->

[Home](./index.md) &gt; [kibana-plugin-plugins-data-public](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-public.md) &gt; [IKibanaSearchResponse](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-public.ikibanasearchresponse.md)

## IKibanaSearchResponse interface

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
export interface IKibanaSearchResponse<RawResponse = any> 
```

## Properties

|  Property | Type | Description |
|  --- | --- | --- |
|  [id](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-public.ikibanasearchresponse.id.md) | <code>string</code> | Some responses may contain a unique id to identify the request this response came from. |
|  [isPartial](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-public.ikibanasearchresponse.ispartial.md) | <code>boolean</code> | Indicates whether the results returned are complete or partial |
|  [isRunning](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-public.ikibanasearchresponse.isrunning.md) | <code>boolean</code> | Indicates whether search is still in flight |
|  [loaded](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-public.ikibanasearchresponse.loaded.md) | <code>number</code> | If relevant to the search strategy, return a loaded number that represents how progress is indicated. |
|  [rawResponse](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-public.ikibanasearchresponse.rawresponse.md) | <code>RawResponse</code> |  |
|  [total](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-public.ikibanasearchresponse.total.md) | <code>number</code> | If relevant to the search strategy, return a total number that represents how progress is indicated. |

Commit message:

[data.search] Add request handler context and asScoped pattern (#80775) (#82648)
* [Search] Add request context and asScoped pattern

* Update docs

* Unify interface for getting search client

* Update examples/search_examples/server/my_strategy.ts

Co-authored-by: Anton Dosov <dosantappdev@gmail.com>

* Review feedback

* Fix checks

* Fix CI

* Fix security search

* Fix test

* Fix test for reals

* Fix types

Co-authored-by: Anton Dosov <dosantappdev@gmail.com>

Co-authored-by: Anton Dosov <dosantappdev@gmail.com>

docs/development/plugins/data/public/kibana-plugin-plugins-data-public.ikibanasearchresponse.md, after:

<!-- Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter. -->

[Home](./index.md) &gt; [kibana-plugin-plugins-data-public](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-public.md) &gt; [IKibanaSearchResponse](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-public.ikibanasearchresponse.md)

## IKibanaSearchResponse interface

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
export interface IKibanaSearchResponse<RawResponse = any> 
```

## Properties

|  Property | Type | Description |
|  --- | --- | --- |
|  [id](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-public.ikibanasearchresponse.id.md) | <code>string</code> | Some responses may contain a unique id to identify the request this response came from. |
|  [isPartial](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-public.ikibanasearchresponse.ispartial.md) | <code>boolean</code> | Indicates whether the results returned are complete or partial |
|  [isRunning](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-public.ikibanasearchresponse.isrunning.md) | <code>boolean</code> | Indicates whether search is still in flight |
|  [loaded](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-public.ikibanasearchresponse.loaded.md) | <code>number</code> | If relevant to the search strategy, return a loaded number that represents how progress is indicated. |
|  [rawResponse](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-public.ikibanasearchresponse.rawresponse.md) | <code>RawResponse</code> | The raw response returned by the internal search method (usually the raw ES response) |
|  [total](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-public.ikibanasearchresponse.total.md) | <code>number</code> | If relevant to the search strategy, return a total number that represents how progress is indicated. |
