docs/api/logstash-configuration-management/list.asciidoc, before:

[role="xpack"]
[[logstash-configuration-management-api-list]]
=== List Pipelines

experimental[This functionality is *experimental* and may be changed or removed completely in a future release.]

The List Pipelines API enables you to list all centrally-managed Logstash pipelines.

Note: You cannot access this endpoint via the Console in Kibana.

[float]
==== Request

`GET /api/logstash/pipelines`

[float]
==== Examples

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
GET api/logstash/pipelines
--------------------------------------------------
// KIBANA

A successful call returns a JSON structure similar to the following example:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "pipelines": [
    {
      "id": "hello-world",
      "description": "Just a simple pipeline",
      "last_modified": "2018-04-14T12:23:29.772Z",
      "username": "elastic" <1>
    },
    {
      "id": "sleepy-pipeline",
      "description": "",
      "last_modified": "2018-03-24T03:41:30.554Z"
    }
  ]
}
--------------------------------------------------

<1> The username property may or may not be present, depending on whether Elastic Security was enabled when the pipeline was created or last updated.

Commit message:

[7.x] [DOCS] New template for APIs (#39298) (#45282)
* Clean up

* Dashboard export API

* More changes

* role-management and saved-objects

* Clean up

* Final clean up

* Clean up

* Moved labels to appropriate places

* Fixed rogue commits

* Comment from Aleh

docs/api/logstash-configuration-management/list.asciidoc, after:

[role="xpack"]
[[logstash-configuration-management-api-list]]
=== List Logstash pipeline API
++++
<titleabbrev>List pipeline</titleabbrev>
++++

List all centrally-managed Logstash pipelines.

experimental[This functionality is *experimental* and may be changed or removed completely in a future release.]

[[logstash-configuration-management-api-list-request]]
==== Request

`GET /api/logstash/pipelines`

[[logstash-configuration-management-api-list-example]]
==== Example

The API returns the following:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "pipelines": [
    {
      "id": "hello-world",
      "description": "Just a simple pipeline",
      "last_modified": "2018-04-14T12:23:29.772Z",
      "username": "elastic" <1>
    },
    {
      "id": "sleepy-pipeline",
      "description": "",
      "last_modified": "2018-03-24T03:41:30.554Z"
    }
  ]
}
--------------------------------------------------

<1> The `username` property may or may not be present, depending on if security was enabled when the pipeline was created or last updated.
