docs/developer/plugin/development-plugin-resources.asciidoc, before:

[[development-plugin-resources]]
=== Plugin Resources

Here are some resources that are helpful for getting started with plugin development.

[float]
==== Our IRC channel
Many Kibana developers hang out on `irc.freenode.net` in the `#kibana` channel. We *want* to help you with plugin development. Even more than that, we *want your help* in understanding your plugin goals, so we can build a great plugin system for you! If you've never used IRC, welcome to the fun. You can get started with the http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=kibana[Freenode Web Client].

[float]
==== Some light reading
Our {repo}blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md[contributing guide] can help you get a development environment going.

[float]
==== Plugin Generator

We recommend that you kick-start your plugin by generating it with the {repo}tree/{branch}/packages/kbn-plugin-generator[Kibana Plugin Generator]. Run the following in the Kibana repo, and you will be asked a couple questions, see some progress bars, and have a freshly generated plugin ready for you to play with in Kibana's `plugins` folder.

["source","shell"]
-----------
node scripts/generate_plugin my_plugin_name # replace "my_plugin_name" with your desired plugin name
-----------


[float]
==== Directory structure for plugins

The Kibana directory must be named `kibana`, and your plugin directory should be located in the root of `kibana` in a `plugins` directory, for example:

["source","shell"]
-----------
.
└── kibana
    └── plugins
        ├── foo-plugin
        └── bar-plugin
-----------

[float]
==== Elastic UI Framework
If you're developing a plugin that has a user interface, take a look at our https://elastic.github.io/eui[Elastic UI Framework].
It documents the CSS and React components we use to build Kibana's user interface.

You're welcome to use these components, but be aware that they are rapidly evolving, and we might introduce breaking changes that will disrupt your plugin's UI.

[float]
==== TypeScript Support
Plugin code can be written in http://www.typescriptlang.org/[TypeScript] if desired. 
To enable TypeScript support, create a `tsconfig.json` file at the root of your plugin that looks something like this:

["source","js"]
-----------
{
  // extend Kibana's tsconfig, or use your own settings
  "extends": "../../kibana/tsconfig.json",

  // tell the TypeScript compiler where to find your source files
  "include": [
    "server/**/*",
    "public/**/*"
  ]
}
-----------

TypeScript code is automatically converted into JavaScript during development, 
but not in the distributable version of Kibana. If you use the 
{repo}blob/{branch}/packages/kbn-plugin-helpers[@kbn/plugin-helpers] to build your plugin, then your `.ts` and `.tsx` files will be permanently transpiled before your plugin is archived. If you have your own build process, make sure to run the TypeScript compiler on your source files and ship the compilation output so that your plugin will work with the distributable version of Kibana.

Commit message:

[DOCS] Adds links to references in code

docs/developer/plugin/development-plugin-resources.asciidoc, after:

[[development-plugin-resources]]
=== Plugin Resources

Here are some resources that are helpful for getting started with plugin development.

[float]
==== Our IRC channel
Many Kibana developers hang out on `irc.freenode.net` in the `#kibana` channel. We *want* to help you with plugin development. Even more than that, we *want your help* in understanding your plugin goals, so we can build a great plugin system for you! If you've never used IRC, welcome to the fun. You can get started with the http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=kibana[Freenode Web Client].

[float]
==== Some light reading
Our {repo}blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md[contributing guide] can help you get a development environment going.

[float]
==== Plugin Generator

We recommend that you kick-start your plugin by generating it with the {repo}tree/{branch}/packages/kbn-plugin-generator[Kibana Plugin Generator]. Run the following in the Kibana repo, and you will be asked a couple questions, see some progress bars, and have a freshly generated plugin ready for you to play with in Kibana's `plugins` folder.

["source","shell"]
-----------
node scripts/generate_plugin my_plugin_name # replace "my_plugin_name" with your desired plugin name
-----------


[float]
==== Directory structure for plugins

The Kibana directory must be named `kibana`, and your plugin directory should be located in the root of `kibana` in a `plugins` directory, for example:

["source","shell"]
-----------
.
└── kibana
    └── plugins
        ├── foo-plugin
        └── bar-plugin
--------

[float]
==== References in the code
 - {repo}blob/{branch}/src/legacy/server/plugins/lib/plugin.js[Plugin class]: What options does the `kibana.Plugin` class accept?
 - <<development-uiexports>>: What type of exports are available?

[float]
==== Elastic UI Framework
If you're developing a plugin that has a user interface, take a look at our https://elastic.github.io/eui[Elastic UI Framework].
It documents the CSS and React components we use to build Kibana's user interface.

You're welcome to use these components, but be aware that they are rapidly evolving, and we might introduce breaking changes that will disrupt your plugin's UI.

[float]
==== TypeScript Support
Plugin code can be written in http://www.typescriptlang.org/[TypeScript] if desired. 
To enable TypeScript support, create a `tsconfig.json` file at the root of your plugin that looks something like this:

["source","js"]
-----------
{
  // extend Kibana's tsconfig, or use your own settings
  "extends": "../../kibana/tsconfig.json",

  // tell the TypeScript compiler where to find your source files
  "include": [
    "server/**/*",
    "public/**/*"
  ]
}
-----------

TypeScript code is automatically converted into JavaScript during development, 
but not in the distributable version of Kibana. If you use the 
{repo}blob/{branch}/packages/kbn-plugin-helpers[@kbn/plugin-helpers] to build your plugin, then your `.ts` and `.tsx` files will be permanently transpiled before your plugin is archived. If you have your own build process, make sure to run the TypeScript compiler on your source files and ship the compilation output so that your plugin will work with the distributable version of Kibana.
