docs/spaces/index.asciidoc, before:

[role="xpack"]
[[xpack-spaces]]
== Spaces

Spaces enable you to organize your dashboards and other saved 
objects into meaningful categories. Once inside a space, you see only 
the dashboards and saved objects that belong to that space. 

{kib} creates a default space for you. 
After you create your own 
spaces, you're asked to choose a space when you log in to Kibana. You can change your 
current space at any time by using the menu in the upper left.

[role="screenshot"]
image::spaces/images/change-space.png["Change current space"]

Kibana supports spaces in several ways.  You can:

[[spaces-getting-started]]

* <<spaces-managing, View&comma; create&comma; and delete spaces>>
* <<spaces-control-feature-visibility, Control feature access based on user needs>>
* <<spaces-control-user-access, Control feature access based on user privileges>>
* <<spaces-moving-objects, Move objects between spaces>>
* <<spaces-delete-started, Disable the Spaces feature>>

[float]
[[spaces-managing]]
=== View, create, and delete spaces

Go to **Management > Spaces** for an overview of your spaces.  This view provides actions 
for you to create, edit, and delete spaces.

[role="screenshot"]
image::spaces/images/space-management.png["Space management"]

[float]
==== Create or edit a space 

You can create as many spaces as you like. Click *Create a space* and provide a name, 
URL identifier, optional description. 

The URL identifier is a short text string that becomes part of the 
{kib} URL when you are inside that space. {kib} suggests a URL identifier based 
on the name of your space, but you can customize the identifier to your liking.
You cannot change the space identifier once you create the space.

{kib} also has an <<spaces-api, API>> 
if you prefer to create spaces programatically.

[role="screenshot"]
image::spaces/images/edit-space.png["Space management"]

[float]
==== Delete a space

Deleting a space permanently removes the space and all of its contents. 
Find the space on the *Spaces* overview page and click the trash icon in the Actions column.
You can't delete the default space, but you can customize it to your liking.

[float]
[[spaces-control-feature-visibility]]
=== Control feature access based on user needs

You have control over which features are visible in each space. 
For example, you might hide Dev Tools 
in your "Executive" space or show Stack Monitoring only in your "Admin" space.
You can define which features to show or hide when you add or edit a space.

Controlling feature 
visibility is not a security feature. To secure access 
to specific features on a per-user basis, you must configure 
<<xpack-security-authorization, Kibana Security>>.

[role="screenshot"]
image::spaces/images/edit-space-feature-visibility.png["Controlling features visiblity"]

[float]
[[spaces-control-user-access]]
=== Control feature access based on user privileges

When using Kibana with security, you can configure applications and features 
based on your users’ privileges. This means different roles can have access 
to different features in the same space. 
Power users might have privileges to create and edit visualizations and dashboards, 
while analysts or executives might have Dashboard and Canvas with read-only privileges.
See <<adding_kibana_privileges>> for details.

[role="screenshot"]
image::spaces/images/spaces-roles.png["Controlling features visiblity"]

[float]
[[spaces-moving-objects]]
=== Move saved objects between spaces
Use {kib}'s <<managing-saved-objects-export-objects, import/export>> 
interface to copy objects from one space to another.

. Navigate to the space that contains your saved objects.
. Export your saved objects via the import/export interface.
. Navigate to the space where you want to import the objects.
. Import your saved objects via the import/export interface.
. (Optional) Delete objects in the export space that you no longer need.

{kib} also has experimental <<dashboard-import-api-import, import>> and 
<<dashboard-api-export, export>> dashboard APIs if you want
a dashboard-centric way to automate this process.


[float]
[[spaces-delete-started]]
=== Disable and version updates

Spaces are automatically enabled in {kib}. If you don't want use this feature, 
you can disable it
by setting `xpack.spaces.enabled` to `false` in your 
`kibana.yml` configuration file.

If you are upgrading your 
version of {kib}, the default space will contain all of your existing saved objects.

Commit message:

Spaces - updating moving SO between spaces docs (#45843) (#46184)
* updating moving SO between spaces docs

* mark api as beta

* apply review suggestions

docs/spaces/index.asciidoc, after:

[role="xpack"]
[[xpack-spaces]]
== Spaces

Spaces enable you to organize your dashboards and other saved 
objects into meaningful categories. Once inside a space, you see only 
the dashboards and saved objects that belong to that space. 

{kib} creates a default space for you. 
After you create your own 
spaces, you're asked to choose a space when you log in to Kibana. You can change your 
current space at any time by using the menu in the upper left.

[role="screenshot"]
image::spaces/images/change-space.png["Change current space"]

Kibana supports spaces in several ways.  You can:

[[spaces-getting-started]]

* <<spaces-managing, View&comma; create&comma; and delete spaces>>
* <<spaces-control-feature-visibility, Control feature access based on user needs>>
* <<spaces-control-user-access, Control feature access based on user privileges>>
* <<spaces-moving-objects, Move objects between spaces>>
* <<spaces-delete-started, Disable the Spaces feature>>

[float]
[[spaces-managing]]
=== View, create, and delete spaces

Go to **Management > Spaces** for an overview of your spaces.  This view provides actions 
for you to create, edit, and delete spaces.

[role="screenshot"]
image::spaces/images/space-management.png["Space management"]

[float]
==== Create or edit a space 

You can create as many spaces as you like. Click *Create a space* and provide a name, 
URL identifier, optional description. 

The URL identifier is a short text string that becomes part of the 
{kib} URL when you are inside that space. {kib} suggests a URL identifier based 
on the name of your space, but you can customize the identifier to your liking.
You cannot change the space identifier once you create the space.

{kib} also has an <<spaces-api, API>> 
if you prefer to create spaces programatically.

[role="screenshot"]
image::spaces/images/edit-space.png["Space management"]

[float]
==== Delete a space

Deleting a space permanently removes the space and all of its contents. 
Find the space on the *Spaces* overview page and click the trash icon in the Actions column.
You can't delete the default space, but you can customize it to your liking.

[float]
[[spaces-control-feature-visibility]]
=== Control feature access based on user needs

You have control over which features are visible in each space. 
For example, you might hide Dev Tools 
in your "Executive" space or show Stack Monitoring only in your "Admin" space.
You can define which features to show or hide when you add or edit a space.

Controlling feature 
visibility is not a security feature. To secure access 
to specific features on a per-user basis, you must configure 
<<xpack-security-authorization, Kibana Security>>.

[role="screenshot"]
image::spaces/images/edit-space-feature-visibility.png["Controlling features visiblity"]

[float]
[[spaces-control-user-access]]
=== Control feature access based on user privileges

When using Kibana with security, you can configure applications and features 
based on your users’ privileges. This means different roles can have access 
to different features in the same space. 
Power users might have privileges to create and edit visualizations and dashboards, 
while analysts or executives might have Dashboard and Canvas with read-only privileges.
See <<adding_kibana_privileges>> for details.

[role="screenshot"]
image::spaces/images/spaces-roles.png["Controlling features visiblity"]

[float]
[[spaces-moving-objects]]
=== Move saved objects between spaces

You can <<managing-saved-objects-copy-to-space, copy objects>> from one space to another
in **Management > Saved objects**.

Alternately, you can move objects using {kib}'s <<managing-saved-objects-export-objects, import and export>>
interface.

. Navigate to the space that contains your saved objects.
. Export your saved objects.
. Navigate to the space where you want to import the objects.
. Import your saved objects.
. (Optional) Delete objects in the export space that you no longer need.

{kib} also has beta <<saved-objects-api-import, import>> and 
<<saved-objects-api-export, export>> APIs if you want to automate this process.


[float]
[[spaces-delete-started]]
=== Disable and version updates

Spaces are automatically enabled in {kib}. If you don't want use this feature, 
you can disable it
by setting `xpack.spaces.enabled` to `false` in your 
`kibana.yml` configuration file.

If you are upgrading your 
version of {kib}, the default space will contain all of your existing saved objects.
