dev_docs/tutorials/performance/adding_performance_journey.mdx, before:

---
id: kibDevTutorialAddingPerformanceJourney
slug: /kibana-dev-docs/tutorial/performance/adding_performance_journey
title: Adding Single User Performance Journey
summary: Learn how to add journey and track Kibana performance
date: 2023-01-13
tags: ['kibana', 'onboarding', 'setup', 'performance', 'development']
---

## Overview

In order to achieve our goal of creating best user experience in Kibana, it is important to keep track on its features performance.
To make things easier, we introduced performance journeys, that mimics end-user experience with Kibana.

Journey runs a flow of user interactions with Kibana in a browser and collects APM metrics for both server and client-side.
It is possible to instrument Kibana with [custom performance metrics](https://docs.elastic.dev/kibana-dev-docs/tutorial/performance/adding_custom_performance_metrics),
that will provide more detailed information about feature performance.

Journeys core is [kbn-journeys](packages/kbn-journeys/README.mdx) package. It is a function test by design and is powered
by [Playwright](https://playwright.dev/) end-to-end testing tool.

### Adding a new performance journey

Let's assume we instrumented dashboard with load time metrics and want to track sample data flights dashboard performance.
Journey supports loading test data with esArchiver or kbnArchiver. Similar to functional tests, it might require to implement custom wait
for UI rendering to be completed.

Simply create a new file in `x-pack/performance/journeys_e2e` with the following code:

```
export const journey = new Journey({
  esArchives: ['x-pack/performance/es_archives/sample_data_flights'],
  kbnArchives: ['x-pack/performance/kbn_archives/flights_no_map_dashboard'],
})

  .step('Go to Dashboards Page', async ({ page, kbnUrl }) => {
    await page.goto(kbnUrl.get(`/app/dashboards`));
    await page.waitForSelector('#dashboardListingHeading');
  })

  .step('Go to Flights Dashboard', async ({ page, log }) => {
    await page.click(subj('dashboardListingTitleLink-[Flights]-Global-Flight-Dashboard'));
    await waitForVisualizations(page, log, 14);
  });
```

Alternative to archives is to use Synthtrace ES client:

```
export const journey = new Journey({
  synthtrace: {
    type: 'apm',
    generator: generateApmData,
    options: {
      from: new Date(Date.now() - 1000 * 60 * 15),
      to: new Date(Date.now() + 1000 * 60 * 15),
    },
  },
})
```

In oder to get correct and consistent metrics, it is important to design journey properly:

- use archives or synthtrace to generate test data
- decouple complex scenarios into multiple simple journeys
- use waiting for page loading / UI component rendering
- test locally and check if journey is stable.
- make sure performance metrics are collected on every run.

### Running performance journey locally for troubleshooting purposes

Use the Node script:
`node scripts/run_performance.js --journey-path x-pack/performance/journeys_e2e/$YOUR_JOURNEY_NAME.ts`

Scripts steps include:

- start Elasticsearch
- start Kibana and run journey first time (warmup) only APM metrics being reported
- start Kibana and run journey second time (test): both EBT and APM metrics being reported
- stop Elasticsearch

You can skip warmup phase for debug purpose by using `--skip-warmup` flag

Since the tests are run on a local machine, there is also realistic throttling applied to the network to
simulate real life internet connection. This means that all requests have a fixed latency and limited bandwidth.

### Benchmarking performance on CI

In order to keep track on performance metrics stability, journeys are run on main branch with a scheduled interval.
Bare metal machine is used to produce results as stable and reproducible as possible.

#### Machine specifications

All benchmarks are run on bare-metal machines with the [following specifications](https://www.hetzner.com/dedicated-rootserver/ex100):

CPU: Intel® Core™ i9-9900K 8 cores
RAM: 128 GB
SSD: 1.92 TB Data center Gen4 NVMe

#### Track performance results

APM metrics are reported to [kibana-ops-e2e-perf](https://kibana-ops-e2e-perf.kb.us-central1.gcp.cloud.es.io/) cluster.
You can filter transactions using labels, e.g. `labels.journeyName : "flight_dashboard"`

Custom metrics reported with EBT are available in [Telemetry Staging](https://telemetry-v2-staging.elastic.dev/) cluster, `kibana-performance` space.

Commit message:

[performance] support triggering subset of journeys against KIbana PR in CI (#193175)
## Summary

It’s common request for Dev teams to run specific journeys on a PR to
compare performance metrics against the `main` branch. These requests
usually focus on a particular area, such as the Dashboard or Discover
app.

To streamline the process, this PR groups relevant journeys into
categories that can be triggered through an environment variable. For
example, setting `JOURNEYS_GROUP=dashboard` will execute only the three
dashboard-specific journeys, which are (usually) sufficient for
evaluating the performance impact of code changes within the Dashboard
app.

Current Process for Triggering Performance Builds:
- Create a new kibana-single-user-performance
[build](https://buildkite.com/elastic/kibana-single-user-performance#new)
- Provide the following arguments:

Branch: `refs/pull/<PR_number>/head`
Under Options, set the environment variable:
`JOURNEYS_GROUP=<group_name>`

Currently supported journey groups:
- kibanaStartAndLoad
- crud
- dashboard
- discover
- maps
- ml

[Build example

](https://buildkite.com/elastic/kibana-single-user-performance/builds/14427)
Each group focuses on a specific set of journeys tied to its respective
area in Kibana, allowing for more targeted performance testing. Since
running group takes ~5-10 min on bare metal worker, it should not delay
the regular (every 3h) runs against `main` branch


test locally with `node scripts/run_performance.js --group <group_name>`

dev_docs/tutorials/performance/adding_performance_journey.mdx, after:

---
id: kibDevTutorialAddingPerformanceJourney
slug: /kibana-dev-docs/tutorial/performance/adding_performance_journey
title: Adding Single User Performance Journey
summary: Learn how to add journey and track Kibana performance
date: 2023-01-13
tags: ['kibana', 'onboarding', 'setup', 'performance', 'development']
---

## Overview

In order to achieve our goal of creating best user experience in Kibana, it is important to keep track on its features performance.
To make things easier, we introduced performance journeys, that mimics end-user experience with Kibana.

Journey runs a flow of user interactions with Kibana in a browser and collects APM metrics for both server and client-side.
It is possible to instrument Kibana with [custom performance metrics](https://docs.elastic.dev/kibana-dev-docs/tutorial/performance/adding_custom_performance_metrics),
that will provide more detailed information about feature performance.

Journeys core is [kbn-journeys](packages/kbn-journeys/README.mdx) package. It is a function test by design and is powered
by [Playwright](https://playwright.dev/) end-to-end testing tool.

### Adding a new performance journey

Let's assume we instrumented dashboard with load time metrics and want to track sample data flights dashboard performance.
Journey supports loading test data with esArchiver or kbnArchiver. Similar to functional tests, it might require to implement custom wait
for UI rendering to be completed.

Simply create a new file in `x-pack/performance/journeys_e2e` with the following code:

```
export const journey = new Journey({
  esArchives: ['x-pack/performance/es_archives/sample_data_flights'],
  kbnArchives: ['x-pack/performance/kbn_archives/flights_no_map_dashboard'],
})

  .step('Go to Dashboards Page', async ({ page, kbnUrl }) => {
    await page.goto(kbnUrl.get(`/app/dashboards`));
    await page.waitForSelector('#dashboardListingHeading');
  })

  .step('Go to Flights Dashboard', async ({ page, log }) => {
    await page.click(subj('dashboardListingTitleLink-[Flights]-Global-Flight-Dashboard'));
    await waitForVisualizations(page, log, 14);
  });
```

Alternative to archives is to use Synthtrace ES client:

```
export const journey = new Journey({
  synthtrace: {
    type: 'apm',
    generator: generateApmData,
    options: {
      from: new Date(Date.now() - 1000 * 60 * 15),
      to: new Date(Date.now() + 1000 * 60 * 15),
    },
  },
})
```

In oder to get correct and consistent metrics, it is important to design journey properly:

- use archives or synthtrace to generate test data
- decouple complex scenarios into multiple simple journeys
- use waiting for page loading / UI component rendering
- test locally and check if journey is stable.
- make sure performance metrics are collected on every run.

### Running performance journey locally for troubleshooting purposes

Use the Node script:
`node scripts/run_performance.js --journey-path x-pack/performance/journeys_e2e/$YOUR_JOURNEY_NAME.ts`

Scripts steps include:

- start Elasticsearch
- start Kibana and run journey first time (warmup) only APM metrics being reported
- start Kibana and run journey second time (test): both EBT and APM metrics being reported
- stop Elasticsearch

You can skip warmup phase for debug purpose by using `--skip-warmup` flag

Since the tests are run on a local machine, there is also realistic throttling applied to the network to
simulate real life internet connection. This means that all requests have a fixed latency and limited bandwidth.

### Benchmarking performance on CI

In order to keep track on performance metrics stability, journeys are run on main branch with a scheduled interval.
Bare metal machine is used to produce results as stable and reproducible as possible.

#### Running subset of journeys for the PR

Some code changes might affect the Kibana performance and it might be benefitial to run relevant journeys against the PR
and compare performance metrics vs. the ones on main branch.

In oder to trigger the build for Kibana PR, you can follow these steps:

- Create a new kibana-single-user-performance [build](https://buildkite.com/elastic/kibana-single-user-performance#new)
- Provide the following arguments:
  - Branch: `refs/pull/<PR_number>/head`
  - Under Options, set the environment variable: `JOURNEYS_GROUP=<group_name>`

Currently supported journey groups:

- kibanaStartAndLoad
- crud
- dashboard
- discover
- maps
- ml

#### Machine specifications

All benchmarks are run on bare-metal machines with the [following specifications](https://www.hetzner.com/dedicated-rootserver/ex100):

CPU: Intel® Core™ i9-9900K 8 cores
RAM: 128 GB
SSD: 1.92 TB Data center Gen4 NVMe

#### Track performance results

APM metrics are reported to [kibana-ops-e2e-perf](https://kibana-ops-e2e-perf.kb.us-central1.gcp.cloud.es.io/) cluster.
You can filter transactions using labels, e.g. `labels.journeyName : "flight_dashboard"`

Custom metrics reported with EBT are available in [Telemetry Staging](https://telemetry-v2-staging.elastic.dev/) cluster, `kibana-performance` space.
