x-pack/plugins/ingest_pipelines/public/application/components/pipeline_editor/README.md, before:

# Pipeline Processors Editor

This component provides a way to visually build and manage an ingest
pipeline.

# API

## Editor components

The top-level API consists of two pieces:

- ProcessorsEditorContextProvider
- PipelineProcessorsEditor

The editor component must be wrapped inside of the context component
as this is where the shared processors state is contained.

Example usage from the [PipelineFormFields](../pipeline_form/pipeline_form_fields.tsx) component:

```
<ProcessorsEditorContextProvider
  onFlyoutOpen={onEditorFlyoutOpen}
  onUpdate={onProcessorsUpdate}
  value={{ processors, onFailure }}
>
  <PipelineProcessorsEditor onLoadJson={onLoadJson} />
</ProcessorsEditorContextProvider>
```

The editor has a dependency on `KibanaContextProvider`, which is defined in the main app's `index.tsx` file. Note that the editor also relies on imports from `public/shared_imports.ts` and `common/types.ts`.

### ProcessorsEditorContextProvider
This component manages state for the processors, as well as state for the test pipeline functionality.

### PipelineProcessorsEditor
This component is responsible for building the layout of the processors editor.

It contains the processor and on-failure processor editors. It also includes the following capabilities that are rendered within the processors header:

- **Load JSON button:** This component gives users a button that
presents a modal for loading a pipeline. It does some basic
validation on the JSON to ensure that it is correct.
- **Test pipeline actions:** This component presents users with a toolbar to test a pipeline. It includes a flyout where users can add sample documents. It issues a request to simulate the pipeline and displays the output. Once the request is successful, a user can use the documents dropdown to view the results for a particular document.

Commit message:

added some implementation details to README

x-pack/plugins/ingest_pipelines/public/application/components/pipeline_editor/README.md, after:

# Pipeline Processors Editor

This component provides a way to visually build and manage an ingest
pipeline.

## Implementation notes

We decided to build a new drag-and-drop (DnD) tree component that supports:

1. Really long nested lists (i.e, lists of lists) who's items can be reordered
2. Click-to-pick-up then click-to-drop UX over drag-hold-then-drop UX

The motivation for (2) was that we felt this would ease working with extremely long
pipelines (100s of nodes) are generally a single list with at most 1-level nesting for
on-failure handlers - typically we don't have on-failure on-failure handlers.

At the time, no library supported what we were looking for. We tried using:

* `react-beautiful-dnd`: unfortunately does not perform well given large lists and does not support nesting
* `react-dnd`: supports only the click-and-drag type DnD

This decision was made at the cost of additional maintenance burden of the DnD-esque tree. Ideally, `<ProcessorsTree />` and
some of the logic contained in the tree `reducer` can be handed over to a library like EUI for long-term
maintenance and improvement.

### Possible libraries to use for the tree component

* if we are happy to let go of (2): https://github.com/brimdata/react-arborist

# API

## Editor components

The top-level API consists of two pieces:

- ProcessorsEditorContextProvider
- PipelineProcessorsEditor

The editor component must be wrapped inside of the context component
as this is where the shared processors state is contained.

Example usage from the [PipelineFormFields](../pipeline_form/pipeline_form_fields.tsx) component:

```
<ProcessorsEditorContextProvider
  onFlyoutOpen={onEditorFlyoutOpen}
  onUpdate={onProcessorsUpdate}
  value={{ processors, onFailure }}
>
  <PipelineProcessorsEditor onLoadJson={onLoadJson} />
</ProcessorsEditorContextProvider>
```

The editor has a dependency on `KibanaContextProvider`, which is defined in the main app's `index.tsx` file. Note that the editor also relies on imports from `public/shared_imports.ts` and `common/types.ts`.

### ProcessorsEditorContextProvider
This component manages state for the processors, as well as state for the test pipeline functionality.

### PipelineProcessorsEditor
This component is responsible for building the layout of the processors editor.

It contains the processor and on-failure processor editors. It also includes the following capabilities that are rendered within the processors header:

- **Load JSON button:** This component gives users a button that
presents a modal for loading a pipeline. It does some basic
validation on the JSON to ensure that it is correct.
- **Test pipeline actions:** This component presents users with a toolbar to test a pipeline. It includes a flyout where users can add sample documents. It issues a request to simulate the pipeline and displays the output. Once the request is successful, a user can use the documents dropdown to view the results for a particular document.
