docs/development/plugins/data/server/kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.md, before:

<!-- Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter. -->

[Home](./index.md) &gt; [kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.md)

## kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server package

## Classes

|  Class | Description |
|  --- | --- |
|  [AggParamType](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.aggparamtype.md) |  |
|  [IndexPattern](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.indexpattern.md) |  |
|  [IndexPatternsFetcher](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.indexpatternsfetcher.md) |  |
|  [IndexPatternsService](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.indexpatternsservice.md) |  |
|  [OptionedParamType](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.optionedparamtype.md) |  |
|  [Plugin](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.plugin.md) |  |

## Enumerations

|  Enumeration | Description |
|  --- | --- |
|  [BUCKET\_TYPES](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.bucket_types.md) |  |
|  [ES\_FIELD\_TYPES](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.es_field_types.md) | \* |
|  [KBN\_FIELD\_TYPES](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.kbn_field_types.md) | \* |
|  [METRIC\_TYPES](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.metric_types.md) |  |

## Functions

|  Function | Description |
|  --- | --- |
|  [getDefaultSearchParams(uiSettingsClient)](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.getdefaultsearchparams.md) |  |
|  [getShardTimeout(config)](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.getshardtimeout.md) |  |
|  [getTime(indexPattern, timeRange, options)](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.gettime.md) |  |
|  [parseInterval(interval)](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.parseinterval.md) |  |
|  [plugin(initializerContext)](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.plugin.md) | Static code to be shared externally |
|  [shouldReadFieldFromDocValues(aggregatable, esType)](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.shouldreadfieldfromdocvalues.md) |  |
|  [usageProvider(core)](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.usageprovider.md) |  |

## Interfaces

|  Interface | Description |
|  --- | --- |
|  [AggParamOption](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.aggparamoption.md) |  |
|  [EsQueryConfig](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.esqueryconfig.md) |  |
|  [FieldDescriptor](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.fielddescriptor.md) |  |
|  [FieldFormatConfig](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.fieldformatconfig.md) |  |
|  [IEsRawSearchResponse](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.iesrawsearchresponse.md) |  |
|  [IEsSearchRequest](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.iessearchrequest.md) |  |
|  [IFieldSubType](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.ifieldsubtype.md) |  |
|  [IFieldType](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.ifieldtype.md) |  |
|  [IndexPatternAttributes](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.indexpatternattributes.md) |  |
|  [ISearchOptions](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.isearchoptions.md) |  |
|  [ISearchSetup](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.isearchsetup.md) |  |
|  [ISearchStart](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.isearchstart.md) |  |
|  [ISearchStrategy](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.isearchstrategy.md) | Search strategy interface contains a search method that takes in a request and returns a promise that resolves to a response. |
|  [KueryNode](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.kuerynode.md) |  |
|  [OptionedValueProp](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.optionedvalueprop.md) |  |
|  [PluginSetup](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.pluginsetup.md) |  |
|  [PluginStart](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.pluginstart.md) |  |
|  [RefreshInterval](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.refreshinterval.md) |  |
|  [SearchStrategyDependencies](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.searchstrategydependencies.md) |  |
|  [SearchUsage](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.searchusage.md) |  |
|  [TabbedAggColumn](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.tabbedaggcolumn.md) | \* |
|  [TabbedTable](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.tabbedtable.md) | \* |

## Variables

|  Variable | Description |
|  --- | --- |
|  [AggGroupLabels](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.agggrouplabels.md) |  |
|  [AggGroupNames](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.agggroupnames.md) |  |
|  [castEsToKbnFieldTypeName](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.castestokbnfieldtypename.md) | Get the KbnFieldType name for an esType string |
|  [config](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.config.md) |  |
|  [ES\_SEARCH\_STRATEGY](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.es_search_strategy.md) |  |
|  [esFilters](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.esfilters.md) |  |
|  [esKuery](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.eskuery.md) |  |
|  [esQuery](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.esquery.md) |  |
|  [fieldFormats](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.fieldformats.md) |  |
|  [indexPatterns](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.indexpatterns.md) |  |
|  [search](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.search.md) |  |
|  [UI\_SETTINGS](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.ui_settings.md) |  |

## Type Aliases

|  Type Alias | Description |
|  --- | --- |
|  [AggConfigOptions](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.aggconfigoptions.md) |  |
|  [AggGroupName](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.agggroupname.md) |  |
|  [AggParam](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.aggparam.md) |  |
|  [EsaggsExpressionFunctionDefinition](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.esaggsexpressionfunctiondefinition.md) |  |
|  [ExecutionContextSearch](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.executioncontextsearch.md) |  |
|  [ExpressionFunctionKibana](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.expressionfunctionkibana.md) |  |
|  [ExpressionFunctionKibanaContext](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.expressionfunctionkibanacontext.md) |  |
|  [ExpressionValueSearchContext](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.expressionvaluesearchcontext.md) |  |
|  [FieldFormatsGetConfigFn](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.fieldformatsgetconfigfn.md) |  |
|  [Filter](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.filter.md) |  |
|  [IAggConfig](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.iaggconfig.md) |  AggConfig This class represents an aggregation, which is displayed in the left-hand nav of the Visualize app. |
|  [IAggType](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.iaggtype.md) |  |
|  [IEsSearchResponse](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.iessearchresponse.md) |  |
|  [IFieldFormatsRegistry](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.ifieldformatsregistry.md) |  |
|  [IFieldParamType](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.ifieldparamtype.md) |  |
|  [IMetricAggType](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.imetricaggtype.md) |  |
|  [KibanaContext](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.kibanacontext.md) |  |
|  [ParsedInterval](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.parsedinterval.md) |  |
|  [Query](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.query.md) |  |
|  [TabbedAggRow](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.tabbedaggrow.md) | \* |
|  [TimeRange](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.timerange.md) |  |

Commit message:

Index patterns api - load field list on server (#82629) (#83021)
The server side index patterns api can now load the field list. Previously it would error if a field list refresh was required.

The regular and rollup index pattern field list loading methods were merged. Rollup index patterns require additional functionality over regular index patterns when it comes to loading the field list, but this won't be necessary once rollups v2 is released.

docs/development/plugins/data/server/kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.md, after:

<!-- Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter. -->

[Home](./index.md) &gt; [kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.md)

## kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server package

## Classes

|  Class | Description |
|  --- | --- |
|  [AggParamType](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.aggparamtype.md) |  |
|  [IndexPattern](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.indexpattern.md) |  |
|  [IndexPatternsFetcher](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.indexpatternsfetcher.md) |  |
|  [IndexPatternsService](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.indexpatternsservice.md) |  |
|  [OptionedParamType](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.optionedparamtype.md) |  |
|  [Plugin](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.plugin.md) |  |

## Enumerations

|  Enumeration | Description |
|  --- | --- |
|  [BUCKET\_TYPES](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.bucket_types.md) |  |
|  [ES\_FIELD\_TYPES](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.es_field_types.md) | \* |
|  [KBN\_FIELD\_TYPES](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.kbn_field_types.md) | \* |
|  [METRIC\_TYPES](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.metric_types.md) |  |

## Functions

|  Function | Description |
|  --- | --- |
|  [getCapabilitiesForRollupIndices(indices)](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.getcapabilitiesforrollupindices.md) |  |
|  [getDefaultSearchParams(uiSettingsClient)](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.getdefaultsearchparams.md) |  |
|  [getShardTimeout(config)](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.getshardtimeout.md) |  |
|  [getTime(indexPattern, timeRange, options)](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.gettime.md) |  |
|  [parseInterval(interval)](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.parseinterval.md) |  |
|  [plugin(initializerContext)](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.plugin.md) | Static code to be shared externally |
|  [shouldReadFieldFromDocValues(aggregatable, esType)](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.shouldreadfieldfromdocvalues.md) |  |
|  [usageProvider(core)](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.usageprovider.md) |  |

## Interfaces

|  Interface | Description |
|  --- | --- |
|  [AggParamOption](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.aggparamoption.md) |  |
|  [EsQueryConfig](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.esqueryconfig.md) |  |
|  [FieldDescriptor](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.fielddescriptor.md) |  |
|  [FieldFormatConfig](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.fieldformatconfig.md) |  |
|  [IEsRawSearchResponse](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.iesrawsearchresponse.md) |  |
|  [IEsSearchRequest](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.iessearchrequest.md) |  |
|  [IFieldSubType](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.ifieldsubtype.md) |  |
|  [IFieldType](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.ifieldtype.md) |  |
|  [IndexPatternAttributes](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.indexpatternattributes.md) |  |
|  [ISearchOptions](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.isearchoptions.md) |  |
|  [ISearchSetup](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.isearchsetup.md) |  |
|  [ISearchStart](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.isearchstart.md) |  |
|  [ISearchStrategy](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.isearchstrategy.md) | Search strategy interface contains a search method that takes in a request and returns a promise that resolves to a response. |
|  [KueryNode](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.kuerynode.md) |  |
|  [OptionedValueProp](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.optionedvalueprop.md) |  |
|  [PluginSetup](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.pluginsetup.md) |  |
|  [PluginStart](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.pluginstart.md) |  |
|  [RefreshInterval](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.refreshinterval.md) |  |
|  [SearchStrategyDependencies](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.searchstrategydependencies.md) |  |
|  [SearchUsage](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.searchusage.md) |  |
|  [TabbedAggColumn](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.tabbedaggcolumn.md) | \* |
|  [TabbedTable](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.tabbedtable.md) | \* |

## Variables

|  Variable | Description |
|  --- | --- |
|  [AggGroupLabels](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.agggrouplabels.md) |  |
|  [AggGroupNames](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.agggroupnames.md) |  |
|  [castEsToKbnFieldTypeName](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.castestokbnfieldtypename.md) | Get the KbnFieldType name for an esType string |
|  [config](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.config.md) |  |
|  [ES\_SEARCH\_STRATEGY](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.es_search_strategy.md) |  |
|  [esFilters](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.esfilters.md) |  |
|  [esKuery](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.eskuery.md) |  |
|  [esQuery](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.esquery.md) |  |
|  [fieldFormats](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.fieldformats.md) |  |
|  [indexPatterns](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.indexpatterns.md) |  |
|  [mergeCapabilitiesWithFields](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.mergecapabilitieswithfields.md) |  |
|  [search](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.search.md) |  |
|  [UI\_SETTINGS](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.ui_settings.md) |  |

## Type Aliases

|  Type Alias | Description |
|  --- | --- |
|  [AggConfigOptions](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.aggconfigoptions.md) |  |
|  [AggGroupName](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.agggroupname.md) |  |
|  [AggParam](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.aggparam.md) |  |
|  [EsaggsExpressionFunctionDefinition](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.esaggsexpressionfunctiondefinition.md) |  |
|  [ExecutionContextSearch](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.executioncontextsearch.md) |  |
|  [ExpressionFunctionKibana](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.expressionfunctionkibana.md) |  |
|  [ExpressionFunctionKibanaContext](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.expressionfunctionkibanacontext.md) |  |
|  [ExpressionValueSearchContext](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.expressionvaluesearchcontext.md) |  |
|  [FieldFormatsGetConfigFn](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.fieldformatsgetconfigfn.md) |  |
|  [Filter](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.filter.md) |  |
|  [IAggConfig](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.iaggconfig.md) |  AggConfig This class represents an aggregation, which is displayed in the left-hand nav of the Visualize app. |
|  [IAggType](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.iaggtype.md) |  |
|  [IEsSearchResponse](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.iessearchresponse.md) |  |
|  [IFieldFormatsRegistry](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.ifieldformatsregistry.md) |  |
|  [IFieldParamType](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.ifieldparamtype.md) |  |
|  [IMetricAggType](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.imetricaggtype.md) |  |
|  [KibanaContext](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.kibanacontext.md) |  |
|  [ParsedInterval](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.parsedinterval.md) |  |
|  [Query](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.query.md) |  |
|  [TabbedAggRow](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.tabbedaggrow.md) | \* |
|  [TimeRange](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.timerange.md) |  |
