docs/development/plugins/data/server/kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.isearchstart.md, before:

<!-- Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter. -->

[Home](./index.md) &gt; [kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.md) &gt; [ISearchStart](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.isearchstart.md)

## ISearchStart interface

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
export interface ISearchStart<SearchStrategyRequest extends IKibanaSearchRequest = IEsSearchRequest, SearchStrategyResponse extends IKibanaSearchResponse = IEsSearchResponse> 
```

## Properties

|  Property | Type | Description |
|  --- | --- | --- |
|  [aggs](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.isearchstart.aggs.md) | <code>AggsStart</code> |  |
|  [getSearchStrategy](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.isearchstart.getsearchstrategy.md) | <code>(name: string) =&gt; ISearchStrategy&lt;SearchStrategyRequest, SearchStrategyResponse&gt;</code> | Get other registered search strategies. For example, if a new strategy needs to use the already-registered ES search strategy, it can use this function to accomplish that. |
|  [search](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.isearchstart.search.md) | <code>ISearchStrategy['search']</code> |  |
|  [searchSource](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.isearchstart.searchsource.md) | <code>{</code><br/><code>        asScoped: (request: KibanaRequest) =&gt; Promise&lt;ISearchStartSearchSource&gt;;</code><br/><code>    }</code> |  |

Commit message:

[data.search] Add request handler context and asScoped pattern (#80775) (#82648)
* [Search] Add request context and asScoped pattern

* Update docs

* Unify interface for getting search client

* Update examples/search_examples/server/my_strategy.ts

Co-authored-by: Anton Dosov <dosantappdev@gmail.com>

* Review feedback

* Fix checks

* Fix CI

* Fix security search

* Fix test

* Fix test for reals

* Fix types

Co-authored-by: Anton Dosov <dosantappdev@gmail.com>

Co-authored-by: Anton Dosov <dosantappdev@gmail.com>

docs/development/plugins/data/server/kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.isearchstart.md, after:

<!-- Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter. -->

[Home](./index.md) &gt; [kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.md) &gt; [ISearchStart](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.isearchstart.md)

## ISearchStart interface

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
export interface ISearchStart<SearchStrategyRequest extends IKibanaSearchRequest = IEsSearchRequest, SearchStrategyResponse extends IKibanaSearchResponse = IEsSearchResponse> 
```

## Properties

|  Property | Type | Description |
|  --- | --- | --- |
|  [aggs](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.isearchstart.aggs.md) | <code>AggsStart</code> |  |
|  [asScoped](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.isearchstart.asscoped.md) | <code>(request: KibanaRequest) =&gt; ISearchClient</code> |  |
|  [getSearchStrategy](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.isearchstart.getsearchstrategy.md) | <code>(name?: string) =&gt; ISearchStrategy&lt;SearchStrategyRequest, SearchStrategyResponse&gt;</code> | Get other registered search strategies by name (or, by default, the Elasticsearch strategy). For example, if a new strategy needs to use the already-registered ES search strategy, it can use this function to accomplish that. |
|  [searchSource](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.isearchstart.searchsource.md) | <code>{</code><br/><code>        asScoped: (request: KibanaRequest) =&gt; Promise&lt;ISearchStartSearchSource&gt;;</code><br/><code>    }</code> |  |
