docs/development/plugins/data/server/kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.isearchoptions.md, before:

<!-- Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter. -->

[Home](./index.md) &gt; [kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.md) &gt; [ISearchOptions](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.isearchoptions.md)

## ISearchOptions interface

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
export interface ISearchOptions 
```

## Properties

|  Property | Type | Description |
|  --- | --- | --- |
|  [abortSignal](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.isearchoptions.abortsignal.md) | <code>AbortSignal</code> | An <code>AbortSignal</code> that allows the caller of <code>search</code> to abort a search request. |
|  [sessionId](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.isearchoptions.sessionid.md) | <code>string</code> | A session ID, grouping multiple search requests into a single session. |
|  [strategy](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.isearchoptions.strategy.md) | <code>string</code> | Use this option to force using a specific server side search strategy. Leave empty to use the default strategy. |

Commit message:

[data.search] Server-side background session service (#81099) (#83766)
* [Search] Add request context and asScoped pattern

* Update docs

* Unify interface for getting search client

* [WIP] [data.search] Server-side background session service

* Update examples/search_examples/server/my_strategy.ts

Co-authored-by: Anton Dosov <dosantappdev@gmail.com>

* Review feedback

* Fix checks

* Add tapFirst and additional props for session

* Fix CI

* Fix security search

* Fix test

* Fix test for reals

* Add restore method

* Add code to search examples

* Add restore and search using restored ID

* Fix handling of preference and order of params

* Trim & cleanup

* Fix types

* Review feedback

* Add tests and remove handling of username

* Update docs

* Move utils to server

* Review feedback

* More review feedback

* Regenerate docs

* Review feedback

* Doc changes

Co-authored-by: Anton Dosov <dosantappdev@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Kibana Machine <42973632+kibanamachine@users.noreply.github.com>

Co-authored-by: Anton Dosov <dosantappdev@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Kibana Machine <42973632+kibanamachine@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/development/plugins/data/server/kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.isearchoptions.md, after:

<!-- Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter. -->

[Home](./index.md) &gt; [kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.md) &gt; [ISearchOptions](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.isearchoptions.md)

## ISearchOptions interface

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
export interface ISearchOptions 
```

## Properties

|  Property | Type | Description |
|  --- | --- | --- |
|  [abortSignal](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.isearchoptions.abortsignal.md) | <code>AbortSignal</code> | An <code>AbortSignal</code> that allows the caller of <code>search</code> to abort a search request. |
|  [isRestore](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.isearchoptions.isrestore.md) | <code>boolean</code> | Whether the session is restored (i.e. search requests should re-use the stored search IDs, rather than starting from scratch) |
|  [isStored](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.isearchoptions.isstored.md) | <code>boolean</code> | Whether the session is already saved (i.e. sent to background) |
|  [sessionId](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.isearchoptions.sessionid.md) | <code>string</code> | A session ID, grouping multiple search requests into a single session. |
|  [strategy](./kibana-plugin-plugins-data-server.isearchoptions.strategy.md) | <code>string</code> | Use this option to force using a specific server side search strategy. Leave empty to use the default strategy. |
