docs/development/core/public/kibana-plugin-public.coresetup.md, before:

<!-- Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter. -->

[Home](./index.md) &gt; [kibana-plugin-public](./kibana-plugin-public.md) &gt; [CoreSetup](./kibana-plugin-public.coresetup.md)

## CoreSetup interface

Core services exposed to the `Plugin` setup lifecycle

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
export interface CoreSetup<TPluginsStart extends object = object> 
```

## Properties

|  Property | Type | Description |
|  --- | --- | --- |
|  [application](./kibana-plugin-public.coresetup.application.md) | <code>ApplicationSetup</code> | [ApplicationSetup](./kibana-plugin-public.applicationsetup.md) |
|  [context](./kibana-plugin-public.coresetup.context.md) | <code>ContextSetup</code> | [ContextSetup](./kibana-plugin-public.contextsetup.md) |
|  [fatalErrors](./kibana-plugin-public.coresetup.fatalerrors.md) | <code>FatalErrorsSetup</code> | [FatalErrorsSetup](./kibana-plugin-public.fatalerrorssetup.md) |
|  [http](./kibana-plugin-public.coresetup.http.md) | <code>HttpSetup</code> | [HttpSetup](./kibana-plugin-public.httpsetup.md) |
|  [notifications](./kibana-plugin-public.coresetup.notifications.md) | <code>NotificationsSetup</code> | [NotificationsSetup](./kibana-plugin-public.notificationssetup.md) |
|  [uiSettings](./kibana-plugin-public.coresetup.uisettings.md) | <code>IUiSettingsClient</code> | [IUiSettingsClient](./kibana-plugin-public.iuisettingsclient.md) |

## Methods

|  Method | Description |
|  --- | --- |
|  [getStartServices()](./kibana-plugin-public.coresetup.getstartservices.md) | Allows plugins to get access to APIs available in start inside async handlers, such as [App.mount](./kibana-plugin-public.app.mount.md)<!-- -->. Promise will not resolve until Core and plugin dependencies have completed <code>start</code>. |

Commit message:

Add UI app functionality to legacy service

docs/development/core/public/kibana-plugin-public.coresetup.md, after:

<!-- Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter. -->

[Home](./index.md) &gt; [kibana-plugin-public](./kibana-plugin-public.md) &gt; [CoreSetup](./kibana-plugin-public.coresetup.md)

## CoreSetup interface

Core services exposed to the `Plugin` setup lifecycle

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
export interface CoreSetup<TPluginsStart extends object = object> 
```

## Properties

|  Property | Type | Description |
|  --- | --- | --- |
|  [application](./kibana-plugin-public.coresetup.application.md) | <code>ApplicationSetup</code> | [ApplicationSetup](./kibana-plugin-public.applicationsetup.md) |
|  [context](./kibana-plugin-public.coresetup.context.md) | <code>ContextSetup</code> | [ContextSetup](./kibana-plugin-public.contextsetup.md) |
|  [fatalErrors](./kibana-plugin-public.coresetup.fatalerrors.md) | <code>FatalErrorsSetup</code> | [FatalErrorsSetup](./kibana-plugin-public.fatalerrorssetup.md) |
|  [http](./kibana-plugin-public.coresetup.http.md) | <code>HttpSetup</code> | [HttpSetup](./kibana-plugin-public.httpsetup.md) |
|  [injectedMetadata](./kibana-plugin-public.coresetup.injectedmetadata.md) | <code>{</code><br/><code>        getInjectedVar: (name: string, defaultValue?: any) =&gt; unknown;</code><br/><code>    }</code> | exposed temporarily until https://github.com/elastic/kibana/issues/41990 done use \*only\* to retrieve config values. There is no way to set injected values in the new platform. Use the legacy platform API instead. |
|  [notifications](./kibana-plugin-public.coresetup.notifications.md) | <code>NotificationsSetup</code> | [NotificationsSetup](./kibana-plugin-public.notificationssetup.md) |
|  [uiSettings](./kibana-plugin-public.coresetup.uisettings.md) | <code>IUiSettingsClient</code> | [IUiSettingsClient](./kibana-plugin-public.iuisettingsclient.md) |

## Methods

|  Method | Description |
|  --- | --- |
|  [getStartServices()](./kibana-plugin-public.coresetup.getstartservices.md) | Allows plugins to get access to APIs available in start inside async handlers, such as [App.mount](./kibana-plugin-public.app.mount.md)<!-- -->. Promise will not resolve until Core and plugin dependencies have completed <code>start</code>. |
