docs/reference/connectors-kibana/index-action-type.md, before:

---
navigation_title: "Index"
mapped_pages:
  - https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/kibana/current/index-action-type.html
---

# Index connector and action [index-action-type]


An index connector indexes a document into {{es}}.


## Create connectors in {{kib}} [define-index-ui]

You can create connectors in **{{stack-manage-app}} > {{connectors-ui}}** or as needed when you’re creating a rule. For example:

% TO DO: Use `:class: screenshot`
![Index connector](../images/index-connector.png)


### Connector configuration [index-connector-configuration]

Index connectors must have a name and an {{es}} index. You can optionally choose a field that indicates when the document was indexed.


## Test connectors [index-action-configuration]

You can test connectors as you’re creating or editing the connector in {{kib}}. For example:

% TO DO: Use `:class: screenshot`
![Index params test](../images/index-params-test.png)

Index connector actions contain a document in JSON format. For example, if you have an index with the following properties:

```text
PUT test
{
    "settings" : {
        "number_of_shards" : 1
    },
    "mappings" : {
        "properties" : {
            "rule_id" : { "type" : "text" },
            "rule_name" : { "type" : "text" },
            "alert_id" : { "type" : "text" },
            "context_message": { "type" : "text" }
        }
    }
}
```

Your test document could contain the following properties and variables:

```text
{
    "rule_id": "{{rule.id}}",
    "rule_name": "{{rule.name}}",
    "alert_id": "{{alert.id}}",
    "context_message": "{{context.message}}"
}
```

Commit message:

[9.0] [DOCS] Fix images and frontmatter in connector docs (#219892) (#220100)
# Backport

This will backport the following commits from `main` to `9.0`:
- [[DOCS] Fix images and frontmatter in connector docs
(#219892)](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/219892)

<!--- Backport version: 9.6.6 -->

### Questions ?
Please refer to the [Backport tool
documentation](https://github.com/sorenlouv/backport)

<!--BACKPORT [{"author":{"name":"Lisa
Cawley","email":"lcawley@elastic.co"},"sourceCommit":{"committedDate":"2025-05-05T14:45:27Z","message":"[DOCS]
Fix images and frontmatter in connector docs
(#219892)","sha":"3dd3975f7b4134234aeadcb954a022c1179e06dd","branchLabelMapping":{"^v9.1.0$":"main","^v(\\d+).(\\d+).\\d+$":"$1.$2"}},"sourcePullRequest":{"labels":["Team:Docs","release_note:skip","docs","backport:version","v9.1.0","v9.0.1"],"title":"[DOCS]
Fix images and frontmatter in connector
docs","number":219892,"url":"https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/219892","mergeCommit":{"message":"[DOCS]
Fix images and frontmatter in connector docs
(#219892)","sha":"3dd3975f7b4134234aeadcb954a022c1179e06dd"}},"sourceBranch":"main","suggestedTargetBranches":["9.0"],"targetPullRequestStates":[{"branch":"main","label":"v9.1.0","branchLabelMappingKey":"^v9.1.0$","isSourceBranch":true,"state":"MERGED","url":"https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/219892","number":219892,"mergeCommit":{"message":"[DOCS]
Fix images and frontmatter in connector docs
(#219892)","sha":"3dd3975f7b4134234aeadcb954a022c1179e06dd"}},{"branch":"9.0","label":"v9.0.1","branchLabelMappingKey":"^v(\\d+).(\\d+).\\d+$","isSourceBranch":false,"state":"NOT_CREATED"}]}]
BACKPORT-->

Co-authored-by: Lisa Cawley <lcawley@elastic.co>

docs/reference/connectors-kibana/index-action-type.md, after:

---
navigation_title: "Index"
mapped_pages:
  - https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/kibana/current/index-action-type.html
applies_to:
  stack: all
  serverless: all
---

# Index connector and action [index-action-type]

An index connector indexes a document into {{es}}.

## Create connectors in {{kib}} [define-index-ui]

You can create connectors in **{{stack-manage-app}} > {{connectors-ui}}** or as needed when you're creating a rule. For example:

:::{image} ../images/index-connector.png
:alt: Index connector
:screenshot:
:::

### Connector configuration [index-connector-configuration]

Index connectors must have a name and an {{es}} index.
You can optionally choose a field that indicates when the document was indexed.

## Test connectors [index-action-configuration]

You can test connectors as you're creating or editing the connector in {{kib}}.
For example:

:::{image} ../images/index-params-test.png
:alt: Index params test
:screenshot:
:::

Index connector actions contain a document in JSON format. For example, if you have an index with the following properties:

```text
PUT test
{
    "settings" : {
        "number_of_shards" : 1
    },
    "mappings" : {
        "properties" : {
            "rule_id" : { "type" : "text" },
            "rule_name" : { "type" : "text" },
            "alert_id" : { "type" : "text" },
            "context_message": { "type" : "text" }
        }
    }
}
```

Your test document could contain the following properties and variables:

```text
{
    "rule_id": "{{rule.id}}",
    "rule_name": "{{rule.name}}",
    "alert_id": "{{alert.id}}",
    "context_message": "{{context.message}}"
}
```
