docs/reference/connectors-kibana/openai-action-type.md, before:

---
navigation_title: "OpenAI"
mapped_pages:
  - https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/kibana/current/openai-action-type.html
---

# OpenAI connector and action [openai-action-type]


The OpenAI connector uses [axios](https://github.com/axios/axios) to send a POST request to an OpenAI provider, either OpenAI or Azure OpenAI.


## Create connectors in {{kib}} [define-gen-ai-ui]

You can create connectors in **{{stack-manage-app}} > {{connectors-ui}}**.  For example:

% TO DO: Use `:class: screenshot`
![OpenAI connector](../images/gen-ai-connector.png)

::::{important}
Elastic provides no official support for connecting to the Azure OpenAI service through a proxy. However if you must use a proxy, ensure that the proxy supports streaming and is SSE-compatible. Elastic will only parse streamed responses.

To validate that your connectivity problems are caused by using a proxy, you can attempt to set up the connector and access the Azure OpenAI service without using a proxy.

::::



### Connector configuration [openai-connector-configuration]

OpenAI connectors have the following configuration properties:

Name
:   The name of the connector.

OpenAI provider
:   The OpenAI API provider, either OpenAI or Azure OpenAI.

URL
:   The OpenAI request URL.

Default model
:   (optional) The default model to use for requests. This option is available only when the provider is `OpenAI`.

API key
:   The OpenAI or Azure OpenAI API key for authentication.


## Test connectors [gen-ai-action-configuration]

You can test connectors as you’re creating or editing the connector in {{kib}}. For example:

% TO DO: Use `:class: screenshot`
![OpenAI params test](../images/gen-ai-params-test.png)

The OpenAI actions have the following configuration properties.

Body
:   A JSON payload sent to the OpenAI API URL. For example:

    ```text
    {
      "model": "gpt-3.5-turbo",
      "messages": [
        {
          "role": "user",
          "content": "Hello world"
        }
      ]
    }
    ```



## Connector networking configuration [openai-connector-networking-configuration]

Use the [Action configuration settings](/reference/configuration-reference/alerting-settings.md#action-settings) to customize connector networking configurations, such as proxies, certificates, or TLS settings. You can set configurations that apply to all your connectors or use `xpack.actions.customHostSettings` to set per-host configurations.


## Token usage dashboard [openai-connector-token-dashboard]

Once you’ve created a OpenAI connector, you can monitor its token usage using the **OpenAI Token Usage** dashboard. Select the connector in **{{stack-manage-app}}** > **{{connectors-ui}}** to view its details, then click the **View OpenAI Usage Dashboard for "*<Name>*" Connector** link to open the dashboard.

::::{note}
To view the dashboard, you need at least `read` and `view_index_metadata` privileges for the `.kibana-event-log-*` index and the `Read` feature privilege for {{kib}}. You can set up a role with these minimum privileges and assign it to non-admin users who need to view this dashboard.
::::

Commit message:

[9.0] [DOCS] Fix images and frontmatter in connector docs (#219892) (#220100)
# Backport

This will backport the following commits from `main` to `9.0`:
- [[DOCS] Fix images and frontmatter in connector docs
(#219892)](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/219892)

<!--- Backport version: 9.6.6 -->

### Questions ?
Please refer to the [Backport tool
documentation](https://github.com/sorenlouv/backport)

<!--BACKPORT [{"author":{"name":"Lisa
Cawley","email":"lcawley@elastic.co"},"sourceCommit":{"committedDate":"2025-05-05T14:45:27Z","message":"[DOCS]
Fix images and frontmatter in connector docs
(#219892)","sha":"3dd3975f7b4134234aeadcb954a022c1179e06dd","branchLabelMapping":{"^v9.1.0$":"main","^v(\\d+).(\\d+).\\d+$":"$1.$2"}},"sourcePullRequest":{"labels":["Team:Docs","release_note:skip","docs","backport:version","v9.1.0","v9.0.1"],"title":"[DOCS]
Fix images and frontmatter in connector
docs","number":219892,"url":"https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/219892","mergeCommit":{"message":"[DOCS]
Fix images and frontmatter in connector docs
(#219892)","sha":"3dd3975f7b4134234aeadcb954a022c1179e06dd"}},"sourceBranch":"main","suggestedTargetBranches":["9.0"],"targetPullRequestStates":[{"branch":"main","label":"v9.1.0","branchLabelMappingKey":"^v9.1.0$","isSourceBranch":true,"state":"MERGED","url":"https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/219892","number":219892,"mergeCommit":{"message":"[DOCS]
Fix images and frontmatter in connector docs
(#219892)","sha":"3dd3975f7b4134234aeadcb954a022c1179e06dd"}},{"branch":"9.0","label":"v9.0.1","branchLabelMappingKey":"^v(\\d+).(\\d+).\\d+$","isSourceBranch":false,"state":"NOT_CREATED"}]}]
BACKPORT-->

Co-authored-by: Lisa Cawley <lcawley@elastic.co>

docs/reference/connectors-kibana/openai-action-type.md, after:

---
navigation_title: "OpenAI"
mapped_pages:
  - https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/kibana/current/openai-action-type.html
applies_to:
  stack: all
  serverless: all
---

# OpenAI connector and action [openai-action-type]

The OpenAI connector uses [axios](https://github.com/axios/axios) to send a POST request to an OpenAI provider, either OpenAI or Azure OpenAI.

## Create connectors in {{kib}} [define-gen-ai-ui]

You can create connectors in **{{stack-manage-app}} > {{connectors-ui}}**.  For example:

:::{image} ../images/gen-ai-connector.png
:alt: OpenAI connector
:screenshot:
:::

::::{important}
Elastic provides no official support for connecting to the Azure OpenAI service through a proxy. However if you must use a proxy, ensure that the proxy supports streaming and is SSE-compatible. Elastic will only parse streamed responses.

To validate that your connectivity problems are caused by using a proxy, you can attempt to set up the connector and access the Azure OpenAI service without using a proxy.
::::

### Connector configuration [openai-connector-configuration]

OpenAI connectors have the following configuration properties:

Name
:   The name of the connector.

OpenAI provider
:   The OpenAI API provider, either OpenAI or Azure OpenAI.

URL
:   The OpenAI request URL.

Default model
:   (optional) The default model to use for requests. This option is available only when the provider is `OpenAI`.

API key
:   The OpenAI or Azure OpenAI API key for authentication.

## Test connectors [gen-ai-action-configuration]

You can test connectors as you're creating or editing the connector in {{kib}}. For example:

:::{image} ../images/gen-ai-params-test.png
:alt: OpenAI params test
:screenshot:
:::

The OpenAI actions have the following configuration properties.

Body
:   A JSON payload sent to the OpenAI API URL. For example:

    ```text
    {
      "model": "gpt-3.5-turbo",
      "messages": [
        {
          "role": "user",
          "content": "Hello world"
        }
      ]
    }
    ```

## Connector networking configuration [openai-connector-networking-configuration]

Use the [Action configuration settings](/reference/configuration-reference/alerting-settings.md#action-settings) to customize connector networking configurations, such as proxies, certificates, or TLS settings. You can set configurations that apply to all your connectors or use `xpack.actions.customHostSettings` to set per-host configurations.

## Token usage dashboard [openai-connector-token-dashboard]

Once you've created a OpenAI connector, you can monitor its token usage using the **OpenAI Token Usage** dashboard. Select the connector in **{{stack-manage-app}}** > **{{connectors-ui}}** to view its details, then click the **View OpenAI Usage Dashboard for "*<Name>*" Connector** link to open the dashboard.

::::{note}
To view the dashboard, you need at least `read` and `view_index_metadata` privileges for the `.kibana-event-log-*` index and the `Read` feature privilege for {{kib}}. You can set up a role with these minimum privileges and assign it to non-admin users who need to view this dashboard.
::::
