docs/reference/connectors-kibana/resilient-action-type.md, before:

---
navigation_title: "{{ibm-r}}"
mapped_pages:
  - https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/kibana/current/resilient-action-type.html
---

# {{ibm-r}} connector and action [resilient-action-type]


The {{ibm-r}} connector uses the [RESILIENT REST v2](https://developer.ibm.com/security/resilient/rest/) to create {{ibm-r}} incidents.


## Create connectors in {{kib}} [define-resilient-ui]

You can create connectors in **{{stack-manage-app}} > {{connectors-ui}}** or as needed when you’re creating a rule. For example:

% TO DO: Use `:class: screenshot`
![{{ibm-r}} connector](../images/resilient-connector.png)


### Connector configuration [resilient-connector-configuration]

{{ibm-r}} connectors have the following configuration properties:

API key ID
:   The authentication key ID for HTTP Basic authentication.

API key secret
:   The authentication key secret for HTTP Basic authentication.

Organization ID
:   The {{ibm-r}} organization ID.

URL
:   The {{ibm-r}} instance URL.


## Test connectors [resilient-action-configuration]

You can test connectors as you’re creating or editing the connector in {{kib}}. For example:

% TO DO: Use `:class: screenshot`
![IBM Resilient connector test options](../images/resilient-params-test.png)

{{ibm-r}} actions have the following configuration properties.

Additional comments
:   Extra information for the client, such as how to troubleshoot the issue.

Description
:   The details about the incident.

Incident type
:   The type of the incident.

Name
:   A name for the issue, used for searching the contents of the knowledge base.

Severity
:   The severity of the incident.


## Connector networking configuration [resilient-connector-networking-configuration]

Use the [action configuration settings](/reference/configuration-reference/alerting-settings.md#action-settings) to customize connector networking configurations, such as proxies, certificates, or TLS settings. You can set configurations that apply to all your connectors or use `xpack.actions.customHostSettings` to set per-host configurations.

Commit message:

[DOCS] Fix images and frontmatter in connector docs (#219892)
(cherry picked from commit 3dd3975f7b4134234aeadcb954a022c1179e06dd)

docs/reference/connectors-kibana/resilient-action-type.md, after:

---
navigation_title: "{{ibm-r}}"
mapped_pages:
  - https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/kibana/current/resilient-action-type.html
applies_to:
  stack: all
  serverless:
    observability: ga
    security: ga
---

# {{ibm-r}} connector and action [resilient-action-type]

The {{ibm-r}} connector uses the [RESILIENT REST v2](https://developer.ibm.com/security/resilient/rest/) to create {{ibm-r}} incidents.

## Create connectors in {{kib}} [define-resilient-ui]

You can create connectors in **{{stack-manage-app}} > {{connectors-ui}}** or as needed when you're creating a rule. For example:

:::{image} ../images/resilient-connector.png
:alt: {{ibm-r}} connector
:screenshot:
:::

### Connector configuration [resilient-connector-configuration]

{{ibm-r}} connectors have the following configuration properties:

API key ID
:   The authentication key ID for HTTP Basic authentication.

API key secret
:   The authentication key secret for HTTP Basic authentication.

Organization ID
:   The {{ibm-r}} organization ID.

URL
:   The {{ibm-r}} instance URL.

## Test connectors [resilient-action-configuration]

You can test connectors as you're creating or editing the connector in {{kib}}. For example:

:::{image} ../images/resilient-params-test.png
:alt: IBM Resilient connector test options
:screenshot:
:::

{{ibm-r}} actions have the following configuration properties.

Additional comments
:   Extra information for the client, such as how to troubleshoot the issue.

Description
:   The details about the incident.

Incident type
:   The type of the incident.

Name
:   A name for the issue, used for searching the contents of the knowledge base.

Severity
:   The severity of the incident.

## Connector networking configuration [resilient-connector-networking-configuration]

Use the [action configuration settings](/reference/configuration-reference/alerting-settings.md#action-settings) to customize connector networking configurations, such as proxies, certificates, or TLS settings. You can set configurations that apply to all your connectors or use `xpack.actions.customHostSettings` to set per-host configurations.
