docs/reference/connectors-kibana/server-log-action-type.md, before:

---
navigation_title: "Server log"
mapped_pages:
  - https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/kibana/current/server-log-action-type.html
---

# Server log connector and action [server-log-action-type]


A server log connector writes an entry to the {{kib}} server log.


## Create connectors in {{kib}} [define-serverlog-ui]

You can create connectors in **{{stack-manage-app}} > {{connectors-ui}}** or as needed when you’re creating a rule. For example:

% TO DO: Use `:class: screenshot`
![Server log connector](../images/serverlog-connector.png)


### Connector configuration [server-log-connector-configuration]

Server log connectors do not have any configuration properties other than a name.


## Test connectors [server-log-action-configuration]

You can test connectors as you’re creating or editing the connector in {{kib}}. For example:

% TO DO: Use `:class: screenshot`
![Server log connector test](../images/serverlog-params-test.png)

Server log connector actions contain a message and a log level, which defaults to `info`. Valid log level values are `trace`, `debug`, `info`, `warn`, `error`, and `fatal`.

Commit message:

[DOCS] Fix images and frontmatter in connector docs

docs/reference/connectors-kibana/server-log-action-type.md, after:

---
navigation_title: "Server log"
mapped_pages:
  - https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/kibana/current/server-log-action-type.html
applies_to:
  stack: all
  serverless:
    security: ga
---

# Server log connector and action [server-log-action-type]

A server log connector writes an entry to the {{kib}} server log.

## Create connectors in {{kib}} [define-serverlog-ui]

You can create connectors in **{{stack-manage-app}} > {{connectors-ui}}** or as needed when you're creating a rule. For example:

:::{image} ../images/serverlog-connector.png
:alt: Server log connector
:screenshot:
:::

### Connector configuration [server-log-connector-configuration]

Server log connectors do not have any configuration properties other than a name.

## Test connectors [server-log-action-configuration]

You can test connectors as you're creating or editing the connector in {{kib}}. For example:

:::{image} ../images/serverlog-params-test.png
:alt: Server log connector test
:screenshot:
:::

Server log connector actions contain a message and a log level, which defaults to `info`. Valid log level values are `trace`, `debug`, `info`, `warn`, `error`, and `fatal`.
