docs/reference/connectors-kibana/swimlane-action-type.md, before:

---
navigation_title: "Swimlane"
mapped_pages:
  - https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/kibana/current/swimlane-action-type.html
---

# Swimlane connector and action [swimlane-action-type]


The Swimlane connector uses the [Swimlane REST API](https://swimlane.com/knowledge-center/docs/developer-guide/rest-api/) to create Swimlane records.


## Create connectors in {{kib}} [define-swimlane-ui]

You can create connectors in **{{stack-manage-app}} > {{connectors-ui}}** or as needed when you’re creating a rule. For example:

% TO DO: Use `:class: screenshot`
![Swimlane connector](../images/swimlane-connector.png)


### Connector configuration [swimlane-connector-configuration]

Swimlane connectors have the following configuration properties:

Name
:   The name of the connector.

URL
:   Swimlane instance URL.

Application ID
:   Swimlane application ID.

API token
:   Swimlane API authentication token for HTTP basic authentication.


## Test connectors [swimlane-action-configuration]

You can test connectors as you’re creating or editing the connector in {{kib}}. For example:

% TO DO: Use `:class: screenshot`
![Swimlane params test](../images/swimlane-params-test.png)

Swimlane actions have the following configuration properties.

Comments
:   Additional information for the client, such as how to troubleshoot the issue.

Severity
:   The severity of the incident.

::::{note}
Alert ID and Rule Name are filled automatically. Specifically, Alert ID is set to `{{alert.id}}` and Rule Name to `{{rule.name}}`.
::::

Commit message:

[9.0] [DOCS] Fix images and frontmatter in connector docs (#219892) (#220100)
# Backport

This will backport the following commits from `main` to `9.0`:
- [[DOCS] Fix images and frontmatter in connector docs
(#219892)](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/219892)

<!--- Backport version: 9.6.6 -->

### Questions ?
Please refer to the [Backport tool
documentation](https://github.com/sorenlouv/backport)

<!--BACKPORT [{"author":{"name":"Lisa
Cawley","email":"lcawley@elastic.co"},"sourceCommit":{"committedDate":"2025-05-05T14:45:27Z","message":"[DOCS]
Fix images and frontmatter in connector docs
(#219892)","sha":"3dd3975f7b4134234aeadcb954a022c1179e06dd","branchLabelMapping":{"^v9.1.0$":"main","^v(\\d+).(\\d+).\\d+$":"$1.$2"}},"sourcePullRequest":{"labels":["Team:Docs","release_note:skip","docs","backport:version","v9.1.0","v9.0.1"],"title":"[DOCS]
Fix images and frontmatter in connector
docs","number":219892,"url":"https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/219892","mergeCommit":{"message":"[DOCS]
Fix images and frontmatter in connector docs
(#219892)","sha":"3dd3975f7b4134234aeadcb954a022c1179e06dd"}},"sourceBranch":"main","suggestedTargetBranches":["9.0"],"targetPullRequestStates":[{"branch":"main","label":"v9.1.0","branchLabelMappingKey":"^v9.1.0$","isSourceBranch":true,"state":"MERGED","url":"https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/219892","number":219892,"mergeCommit":{"message":"[DOCS]
Fix images and frontmatter in connector docs
(#219892)","sha":"3dd3975f7b4134234aeadcb954a022c1179e06dd"}},{"branch":"9.0","label":"v9.0.1","branchLabelMappingKey":"^v(\\d+).(\\d+).\\d+$","isSourceBranch":false,"state":"NOT_CREATED"}]}]
BACKPORT-->

Co-authored-by: Lisa Cawley <lcawley@elastic.co>

docs/reference/connectors-kibana/swimlane-action-type.md, after:

---
navigation_title: "Swimlane"
mapped_pages:
  - https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/kibana/current/swimlane-action-type.html
applies_to:
  stack: all
  serverless:
    observability: ga
    security: ga
---

# Swimlane connector and action [swimlane-action-type]

The Swimlane connector uses the [Swimlane REST API](https://swimlane.com/knowledge-center/docs/developer-guide/rest-api/) to create Swimlane records.

## Create connectors in {{kib}} [define-swimlane-ui]

You can create connectors in **{{stack-manage-app}} > {{connectors-ui}}** or as needed when you're creating a rule. For example:

:::{image} ../images/swimlane-connector.png
:alt: Swimlane connector
:screenshot:
:::

### Connector configuration [swimlane-connector-configuration]

Swimlane connectors have the following configuration properties:

Name
:   The name of the connector.

URL
:   Swimlane instance URL.

Application ID
:   Swimlane application ID.

API token
:   Swimlane API authentication token for HTTP basic authentication.

## Test connectors [swimlane-action-configuration]

You can test connectors as you're creating or editing the connector in {{kib}}. For example:

:::{image} ../images/swimlane-params-test.png
:alt: Swimlane params test
:screenshot:
:::

Swimlane actions have the following configuration properties.

Comments
:   Additional information for the client, such as how to troubleshoot the issue.

Severity
:   The severity of the incident.

::::{note}
Alert ID and Rule Name are filled automatically. Specifically, Alert ID is set to `{{alert.id}}` and Rule Name to `{{rule.name}}`.
::::
