docs/reference/connectors-kibana/thehive-action-type.md, before:

---
navigation_title: "{{hive}}"
mapped_pages:
  - https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/kibana/current/thehive-action-type.html
---

# {{hive}} connector and action [thehive-action-type]


{{hive}} connector uses the [{{hive}} (v1) REST API](https://docs.strangebee.com/thehive/api-docs/) to create cases and alerts. [8.16.0]

::::{note}
If you use this connector with [cases](docs-content://explore-analyze/alerts-cases/cases.md), the status values differ in {{kib}} and {{hive}}. The status values are not synchronized when you update a case.
::::

## Create connectors in {{kib}} [define-thehive-ui]

You can create connectors in **{{stack-manage-app}} > {{connectors-ui}}** or as needed when you’re creating a rule. For example:

% TO DO: Use `:class: screenshot`
![{{hive}} connector](../images/thehive-connector.png)


### Connector configuration [thehive-connector-configuration]

{{hive}} connectors have the following configuration properties:

Name
:   The name of the connector.

Organisation
:   The organisation in {{hive}} that will contain the cases or alerts.

URL
:   The instance URL in {{hive}}.

API key
:   The API key for authentication in {{hive}}.


## Test connectors [thehive-action-configuration]

You can test connectors for creating a case or an alert with the [run connector API](https://www.elastic.co/docs/api/doc/kibana/v8/group/endpoint-connectors) or as you’re creating or editing the connector in {{kib}}. For example:

% TO DO: Use `:class: screenshot`
![{{hive}} case params test](../images/thehive-params-case-test.png)

% TO DO: Use `:class: screenshot`
![{{hive}} alert params test](../images/thehive-params-alert-test.png)

{{hive}} actions have the following configuration properties.

Event action
:   The action that will be performed in {{hive}}: create a case or an alert.

Title
:   The title of the incident.

Description
:   The details about the incident.

Severity
:   The severity of the incident: `LOW`, `MEDIUM`, `HIGH` or `CRITICAL`.

TLP
:   The traffic light protocol designation for the incident: `CLEAR`, `GREEN`, `AMBER`, `AMBER+STRICT` or `RED`.

Tags
:   The keywords or tags for the incident.

Additional comments
:   Additional information about the incident.

Type
:   The type of alert.

Source
:   The source of the alert.

Source reference
:   A source reference for the alert.


## Connector networking configuration [thehive-connector-networking-configuration]

Use the [Action configuration settings](/reference/configuration-reference/alerting-settings.md#action-settings) to customize connector networking configurations, such as proxies, certificates, or TLS settings. You can set configurations that apply to all your connectors or use `xpack.actions.customHostSettings` to set per-host configurations.


## Configure {{hive}} [configure-thehive]

To generate an API key in {{hive}}:

1. Log in to your {{hive}} instance.
2. Open profile tab and select the settings.
3. Go to **API Key**.
4. Click **Create** if no API key has been created previously; otherwise, you can view the API key by clicking on **Reveal**.
5. Copy the **API key** value to configure the connector in {{kib}}.

Commit message:

[9.0] [DOCS] Fix images and frontmatter in connector docs (#219892) (#220100)
# Backport

This will backport the following commits from `main` to `9.0`:
- [[DOCS] Fix images and frontmatter in connector docs
(#219892)](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/219892)

<!--- Backport version: 9.6.6 -->

### Questions ?
Please refer to the [Backport tool
documentation](https://github.com/sorenlouv/backport)

<!--BACKPORT [{"author":{"name":"Lisa
Cawley","email":"lcawley@elastic.co"},"sourceCommit":{"committedDate":"2025-05-05T14:45:27Z","message":"[DOCS]
Fix images and frontmatter in connector docs
(#219892)","sha":"3dd3975f7b4134234aeadcb954a022c1179e06dd","branchLabelMapping":{"^v9.1.0$":"main","^v(\\d+).(\\d+).\\d+$":"$1.$2"}},"sourcePullRequest":{"labels":["Team:Docs","release_note:skip","docs","backport:version","v9.1.0","v9.0.1"],"title":"[DOCS]
Fix images and frontmatter in connector
docs","number":219892,"url":"https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/219892","mergeCommit":{"message":"[DOCS]
Fix images and frontmatter in connector docs
(#219892)","sha":"3dd3975f7b4134234aeadcb954a022c1179e06dd"}},"sourceBranch":"main","suggestedTargetBranches":["9.0"],"targetPullRequestStates":[{"branch":"main","label":"v9.1.0","branchLabelMappingKey":"^v9.1.0$","isSourceBranch":true,"state":"MERGED","url":"https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/219892","number":219892,"mergeCommit":{"message":"[DOCS]
Fix images and frontmatter in connector docs
(#219892)","sha":"3dd3975f7b4134234aeadcb954a022c1179e06dd"}},{"branch":"9.0","label":"v9.0.1","branchLabelMappingKey":"^v(\\d+).(\\d+).\\d+$","isSourceBranch":false,"state":"NOT_CREATED"}]}]
BACKPORT-->

Co-authored-by: Lisa Cawley <lcawley@elastic.co>

docs/reference/connectors-kibana/thehive-action-type.md, after:

---
navigation_title: "{{hive}}"
mapped_pages:
  - https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/kibana/current/thehive-action-type.html
applies_to:
  stack: all
  serverless:
    observability: ga
    security: ga
---

# {{hive}} connector and action [thehive-action-type]

{{hive}} connector uses the [{{hive}} (v1) REST API](https://docs.strangebee.com/thehive/api-docs/) to create cases and alerts. [8.16.0]

::::{note}
If you use this connector with [cases](docs-content://explore-analyze/alerts-cases/cases.md), the status values differ in {{kib}} and {{hive}}. The status values are not synchronized when you update a case.
::::

## Create connectors in {{kib}} [define-thehive-ui]

You can create connectors in **{{stack-manage-app}} > {{connectors-ui}}** or as needed when you're creating a rule. For example:

:::{image} ../images/thehive-connector.png
:alt: {{hive}} connector
:screenshot:
:::

### Connector configuration [thehive-connector-configuration]

{{hive}} connectors have the following configuration properties:

Name
:   The name of the connector.

Organisation
:   The organisation in {{hive}} that will contain the cases or alerts.

URL
:   The instance URL in {{hive}}.

API key
:   The API key for authentication in {{hive}}.

## Test connectors [thehive-action-configuration]

You can test connectors for creating a case or an alert with the [run connector API](https://www.elastic.co/docs/api/doc/kibana/v8/group/endpoint-connectors) or as you're creating or editing the connector in {{kib}}. For example:

:::{image} ../images/thehive-params-case-test.png
:alt: {{hive}} case params test
:screenshot:
:::

:::{image} ../images/thehive-params-alert-test.png
:alt: {{hive}} alert params test
:screenshot:
:::

{{hive}} actions have the following configuration properties.

Event action
:   The action that will be performed in {{hive}}: create a case or an alert.

Title
:   The title of the incident.

Description
:   The details about the incident.

Severity
:   The severity of the incident: `LOW`, `MEDIUM`, `HIGH` or `CRITICAL`.

TLP
:   The traffic light protocol designation for the incident: `CLEAR`, `GREEN`, `AMBER`, `AMBER+STRICT` or `RED`.

Tags
:   The keywords or tags for the incident.

Additional comments
:   Additional information about the incident.

Type
:   The type of alert.

Source
:   The source of the alert.

Source reference
:   A source reference for the alert.

## Connector networking configuration [thehive-connector-networking-configuration]

Use the [Action configuration settings](/reference/configuration-reference/alerting-settings.md#action-settings) to customize connector networking configurations, such as proxies, certificates, or TLS settings. You can set configurations that apply to all your connectors or use `xpack.actions.customHostSettings` to set per-host configurations.

## Configure {{hive}} [configure-thehive]

To generate an API key in {{hive}}:

1. Log in to your {{hive}} instance.
2. Open profile tab and select the settings.
3. Go to **API Key**.
4. Click **Create** if no API key has been created previously; otherwise, you can view the API key by clicking on **Reveal**.
5. Copy the **API key** value to configure the connector in {{kib}}.
