docs/reference/connectors-kibana/torq-action-type.md, before:

---
navigation_title: "Torq"
mapped_pages:
  - https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/kibana/current/torq-action-type.html
---

# Torq connector and action [torq-action-type]


The Torq connector uses a Torq webhook to trigger workflows with Kibana actions.


## Create connectors in {{kib}} [define-torq-ui]

You can create connectors in **{{stack-manage-app}} > {{connectors-ui}}** or as needed when you’re creating a rule. For example:

% TO DO: Use `:class: screenshot`
![configured Torq connector](../images/torq-configured-connector.png)


### Connector configuration [torq-connector-configuration]

Torq connectors have the following configuration properties:

Name
:   The name of the connector. The name is used to identify a connector in the Stack Management UI connector listing, and in the connector list when configuring an action.

Torq endpoint URL
:   Endpoint URL (webhook) of the Elastic Security integration you created in Torq.

Torq authentication header secret
:   Secret of the webhook authentication header.


## Test connectors [torq-action-configuration]

You can test connectors as you’re creating or editing the connector in {{kib}}. For example:

% TO DO: Use `:class: screenshot`
![Torq connector test](../images/torq-connector-test.png)

Torq actions have the following configuration properties.

Body
:   JSON payload to send to Torq.

Commit message:

[DOCS] Fix images and frontmatter in connector docs

docs/reference/connectors-kibana/torq-action-type.md, after:

---
navigation_title: "Torq"
mapped_pages:
  - https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/kibana/current/torq-action-type.html
applies_to:
  stack: all
  serverless:
    observability: ga
    security: ga
---

# Torq connector and action [torq-action-type]

The Torq connector uses a Torq webhook to trigger workflows with Kibana actions.

## Create connectors in {{kib}} [define-torq-ui]

You can create connectors in **{{stack-manage-app}} > {{connectors-ui}}** or as needed when you're creating a rule. For example:

:::{image} ../images/torq-configured-connector.png
:alt: Configure a Torq connector
:screenshot:
:::

### Connector configuration [torq-connector-configuration]

Torq connectors have the following configuration properties:

Name
:   The name of the connector. The name is used to identify a connector in the Stack Management UI connector listing, and in the connector list when configuring an action.

Torq endpoint URL
:   Endpoint URL (webhook) of the Elastic Security integration you created in Torq.

Torq authentication header secret
:   Secret of the webhook authentication header.

## Test connectors [torq-action-configuration]

You can test connectors as you're creating or editing the connector in {{kib}}. For example:

:::{image} ../images/torq-connector-test.png
:alt: Torq connector test
:screenshot:
:::

Torq actions have the following configuration properties.

Body
:   JSON payload to send to Torq.
