dev_docs/tutorials/ci.mdx, before:

---
id: kibDevTutorialCI
slug: /kibana-dev-docs/tutorials/ci
title: CI
description: CI
date: 2023-11-08
tags: ['kibana', 'onboarding', 'dev', 'ci']
---

## CI

Kibana uses BuildKite to run a series of checks against each pull requests and tracked branch.  Results are posted in pull requests as comments and from the BuildKite UI

### Comments

Comments in pull requests can be used to trigger CI operations.

#### `buildkite test this`

Run test suites and checks.

#### `@elasticmachine merge upstream`

Merge in the most recent changes from upstream.

#### `@elasticmachine run elasticsearch-ci/docs`

Build documentation from the root `docs` folder.

### Labels

Labels can be added to a pull request to run conditional pipelines.  Build artifacts will be available on the "Artifacts" tab of the "Build Kibana Distribution and Plugins" step.

#### `ci:all-cypress-suites`

Some Cypress test suites are only run when code changes are made in certain files, typically files with overlapping test coverage.  Adding this label will cause all Cypress tests to run.

#### `ci:build-all-platforms`

Build Windows, macOS, and Linux archives.

#### `ci:build-canvas-shareable-runtime`

Build the Canvas shareable runtime and include it in the distribution.

#### `ci:build-cdn-assets`

Build an archive that can be used to serve Kibana's static assets.

#### `ci:build-cloud-image`

Build cloud Docker images that can be used for testing deployments on Elastic Cloud.

#### `ci:build-docker-fips`

Build Docker UBI x64 image with FIPS enabled.

#### `ci:build-os-packages`

Build Docker images, and Debian and RPM packages.

#### `ci:build-serverless-image`

Build serverless Docker images that can be used for testing deployments on Elastic Cloud.

#### `ci:build-storybooks`

Build and upload storybooks.

#### `ci:build-webpack-bundle-analyzer`

Build and upload a bundle report generated by `webpack-bundle-analyzer`.

#### `ci:cloud-deploy`

Create or update a deployment on Elastic Cloud production.

#### `ci:cloud-fips-deploy`

Create or update a deployment on Elastic Cloud production using a FIPS image. Has precedence over `ci:cloud-deploy`

#### `ci:cloud-persist-deployment`

Prevents an existing deployment from being shutdown due to inactivity.

#### `ci:cloud-redeploy`

Create a new deployment on Elastic Cloud.  Previous deployments linked to a pull request will be shutdown and data will not be preserved.

#### `ci:collect-apm`

Collect APM metrics, available for viewing on the Kibana CI APM cluster.

#### `ci:no-auto-commit`

Skip auto-committing changed files.

#### `ci:project-deploy-elasticsearch`

Create or update a serverless Elasticsearch project on Elastic Cloud QA.

#### `ci:project-deploy-observability`

Create or update a serverless Observability project on Elastic Cloud QA.

#### `ci:project-deploy-security`

Create or update a serverless Security project on Elastic Cloud QA.

#### `ci:project-persist-deployment`

Prevents an existing deployment from being shutdown due to inactivity.

Commit message:

add support for build-cloud-fips-image label

dev_docs/tutorials/ci.mdx, after:

---
id: kibDevTutorialCI
slug: /kibana-dev-docs/tutorials/ci
title: CI
description: CI
date: 2023-11-08
tags: ['kibana', 'onboarding', 'dev', 'ci']
---

## CI

Kibana uses BuildKite to run a series of checks against each pull requests and tracked branch.  Results are posted in pull requests as comments and from the BuildKite UI

### Comments

Comments in pull requests can be used to trigger CI operations.

#### `buildkite test this`

Run test suites and checks.

#### `@elasticmachine merge upstream`

Merge in the most recent changes from upstream.

#### `@elasticmachine run elasticsearch-ci/docs`

Build documentation from the root `docs` folder.

### Labels

Labels can be added to a pull request to run conditional pipelines.  Build artifacts will be available on the "Artifacts" tab of the "Build Kibana Distribution and Plugins" step.

#### `ci:all-cypress-suites`

Some Cypress test suites are only run when code changes are made in certain files, typically files with overlapping test coverage.  Adding this label will cause all Cypress tests to run.

#### `ci:build-all-platforms`

Build Windows, macOS, and Linux archives.

#### `ci:build-canvas-shareable-runtime`

Build the Canvas shareable runtime and include it in the distribution.

#### `ci:build-cdn-assets`

Build an archive that can be used to serve Kibana's static assets.

#### `ci:build-cloud-image`

Build cloud Docker images that can be used for testing deployments on Elastic Cloud.

#### `ci:build-cloud-fips-image`

Build FIPS cloud Docker images that can be used for testing deployments on Elastic Cloud.

#### `ci:build-docker-fips`

Build Docker UBI x64 image with FIPS enabled.

#### `ci:build-os-packages`

Build Docker images, and Debian and RPM packages.

#### `ci:build-serverless-image`

Build serverless Docker images that can be used for testing deployments on Elastic Cloud.

#### `ci:build-storybooks`

Build and upload storybooks.

#### `ci:build-webpack-bundle-analyzer`

Build and upload a bundle report generated by `webpack-bundle-analyzer`.

#### `ci:cloud-deploy`

Create or update a deployment on Elastic Cloud production.

#### `ci:cloud-fips-deploy`

Create or update a deployment on Elastic Cloud production using a FIPS image. Has precedence over `ci:cloud-deploy`

#### `ci:cloud-persist-deployment`

Prevents an existing deployment from being shutdown due to inactivity.

#### `ci:cloud-redeploy`

Create a new deployment on Elastic Cloud.  Previous deployments linked to a pull request will be shutdown and data will not be preserved.

#### `ci:collect-apm`

Collect APM metrics, available for viewing on the Kibana CI APM cluster.

#### `ci:no-auto-commit`

Skip auto-committing changed files.

#### `ci:project-deploy-elasticsearch`

Create or update a serverless Elasticsearch project on Elastic Cloud QA.

#### `ci:project-deploy-observability`

Create or update a serverless Observability project on Elastic Cloud QA.

#### `ci:project-deploy-security`

Create or update a serverless Security project on Elastic Cloud QA.

#### `ci:project-persist-deployment`

Prevents an existing deployment from being shutdown due to inactivity.
