docs/developer/contributing/development-tests.asciidoc, before:

[[development-tests]]
== Testing

[discrete]
=== Running specific {kib} tests

The following table outlines possible test file locations and how to
invoke them:

[width="100%",cols="7%,59%,34%",options="header",]
|===
|Test runner |Test location |Runner command (working directory is {kib}
root)
|Jest |`**/*.test.{js,mjs,ts,tsx}`
|`yarn test:jest [test path]`

|Jest (integration) |`**/integration_tests/**/*.test.{js,mjs,ts,tsx}`
|`yarn test:jest_integration [test path]`

|Functional
|`test/**/config.js` `x-pack/test/**/config.js`
|`node scripts/functional_tests_server --config [directory]/config.js` `node scripts/functional_test_runner --config [directory]/config.js --grep=regexp`
|===

Test runner arguments: - Where applicable, the optional arguments
`--grep=regexp` will only run tests or test suites
whose descriptions matches the regular expression. - `[test path]` is
the relative path to the test file.

=== Unit Testing

Kibana primarily uses Jest for unit testing. Each plugin or package defines a `jest.config.js` that extends link:{kib-repo}tree/{branch}/packages/kbn-test/jest-preset.js[a preset] provided by the link:{kib-repo}tree/{branch}/packages/kbn-test[`@kbn/test`] package. Unless you intend to run all unit tests within the project, it's most efficient to provide the Jest configuration file for the plugin or package you're testing.

[source,bash]
----
yarn jest --config src/platform/plugins/shared/dashboard/jest.config.js
----

A script is available to provide a better user experience when testing while navigating throughout the repository. To run the tests within your current working directory, use `yarn test:jest`. Like the Jest CLI, you can also supply a path to determine which tests to run.

[source,bash]
----
kibana/src/platform/plugins/shared/dashboard/server$ yarn test:jest #or
kibana/src/platform/plugins/shared/dashboard$ yarn test:jest server #or
kibana$ yarn test:jest src/platform/plugins/shared/dashboard/server
----

Any additional options supplied to `test:jest` will be passed onto the Jest CLI with the resulting Jest command always being outputted.

[source,bash]
----
kibana/src/platform/plugins/shared/dashboard/server$ yarn test:jest --coverage

# is equivalent to

yarn jest --coverage --verbose --config /home/tyler/elastic/kibana/src/platform/plugins/shared/dashboard/jest.config.js server
----

You can generate code coverage report for a single plugin.

[source,bash]
----
yarn jest --coverage --config src/platform/plugins/shared/console/jest.config.js
----

Html report is available in target/kibana-coverage/jest/path/to/plugin

[discrete]
=== Running browser automation tests

Check out <<development-functional-tests>> to learn more about how you can run
and develop functional tests for {kib} core and plugins.

You can also look into the {kib-repo}tree/{branch}/scripts/README.md[Scripts README.md]
to learn more about using the node scripts we provide for building
{kib}, running integration tests, and starting up {kib} and
{es} while you develop.

[discrete]
==== More testing information:

* <<development-functional-tests>>
* <<development-unit-tests>>
* <<development-accessibility-tests>>
* <<development-package-tests>>

include::development-functional-tests.asciidoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::development-unit-tests.asciidoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::development-accessibility-tests.asciidoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::development-package-tests.asciidoc[leveloffset=+1]

[discrete]
=== Cross-browser compatibility

**Testing IE on OS X**

**Note:** IE11 is not supported from 7.9 onwards.

* http://www.vmware.com/products/fusion/fusion-evaluation.html[Download
VMWare Fusion].
* https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/tools/vms/#downloads[Download
IE virtual machines] for VMWare.
* Open VMWare and go to Window > Virtual Machine Library. Unzip the
virtual machine and drag the .vmx file into your Virtual Machine
Library.
* Right-click on the virtual machine you just added to your library and
select "`Snapshots…`", and then click the "`Take`" button in the modal
that opens. You can roll back to this snapshot when the VM expires in 90
days.
* In System Preferences > Sharing, change your computer name to be
something simple, e.g. "`computer`".
* Run {kib} with `yarn start --host=computer.local` (substituting
your computer name).
* Now you can run your VM, open the browser, and navigate to
`http://computer.local:5601` to test {kib}.
* Alternatively you can use browserstack

Commit message:

[8.18] SKA: Relocate "platform" packages that remain on `/packages` (208704) (#212751)
# Backport

This will backport the following commits from `main` to `8.18`:
- #208704

docs/developer/contributing/development-tests.asciidoc, after:

[[development-tests]]
== Testing

[discrete]
=== Running specific {kib} tests

The following table outlines possible test file locations and how to
invoke them:

[width="100%",cols="7%,59%,34%",options="header",]
|===
|Test runner |Test location |Runner command (working directory is {kib}
root)
|Jest |`**/*.test.{js,mjs,ts,tsx}`
|`yarn test:jest [test path]`

|Jest (integration) |`**/integration_tests/**/*.test.{js,mjs,ts,tsx}`
|`yarn test:jest_integration [test path]`

|Functional
|`test/**/config.js` `x-pack/test/**/config.js`
|`node scripts/functional_tests_server --config [directory]/config.js` `node scripts/functional_test_runner --config [directory]/config.js --grep=regexp`
|===

Test runner arguments: - Where applicable, the optional arguments
`--grep=regexp` will only run tests or test suites
whose descriptions matches the regular expression. - `[test path]` is
the relative path to the test file.

=== Unit Testing

Kibana primarily uses Jest for unit testing. Each plugin or package defines a `jest.config.js` that extends link:{kib-repo}tree/{branch}/src/platform/packages/shared/kbn-test/jest-preset.js[a preset] provided by the link:{kib-repo}tree/{branch}/src/platform/packages/shared/kbn-test[`@kbn/test`] package. Unless you intend to run all unit tests within the project, it's most efficient to provide the Jest configuration file for the plugin or package you're testing.

[source,bash]
----
yarn jest --config src/platform/plugins/shared/dashboard/jest.config.js
----

A script is available to provide a better user experience when testing while navigating throughout the repository. To run the tests within your current working directory, use `yarn test:jest`. Like the Jest CLI, you can also supply a path to determine which tests to run.

[source,bash]
----
kibana/src/platform/plugins/shared/dashboard/server$ yarn test:jest #or
kibana/src/platform/plugins/shared/dashboard$ yarn test:jest server #or
kibana$ yarn test:jest src/platform/plugins/shared/dashboard/server
----

Any additional options supplied to `test:jest` will be passed onto the Jest CLI with the resulting Jest command always being outputted.

[source,bash]
----
kibana/src/platform/plugins/shared/dashboard/server$ yarn test:jest --coverage

# is equivalent to

yarn jest --coverage --verbose --config /home/tyler/elastic/kibana/src/platform/plugins/shared/dashboard/jest.config.js server
----

You can generate code coverage report for a single plugin.

[source,bash]
----
yarn jest --coverage --config src/platform/plugins/shared/console/jest.config.js
----

Html report is available in target/kibana-coverage/jest/path/to/plugin

[discrete]
=== Running browser automation tests

Check out <<development-functional-tests>> to learn more about how you can run
and develop functional tests for {kib} core and plugins.

You can also look into the {kib-repo}tree/{branch}/scripts/README.md[Scripts README.md]
to learn more about using the node scripts we provide for building
{kib}, running integration tests, and starting up {kib} and
{es} while you develop.

[discrete]
==== More testing information:

* <<development-functional-tests>>
* <<development-unit-tests>>
* <<development-accessibility-tests>>
* <<development-package-tests>>

include::development-functional-tests.asciidoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::development-unit-tests.asciidoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::development-accessibility-tests.asciidoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::development-package-tests.asciidoc[leveloffset=+1]

[discrete]
=== Cross-browser compatibility

**Testing IE on OS X**

**Note:** IE11 is not supported from 7.9 onwards.

* http://www.vmware.com/products/fusion/fusion-evaluation.html[Download
VMWare Fusion].
* https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/tools/vms/#downloads[Download
IE virtual machines] for VMWare.
* Open VMWare and go to Window > Virtual Machine Library. Unzip the
virtual machine and drag the .vmx file into your Virtual Machine
Library.
* Right-click on the virtual machine you just added to your library and
select "`Snapshots…`", and then click the "`Take`" button in the modal
that opens. You can roll back to this snapshot when the VM expires in 90
days.
* In System Preferences > Sharing, change your computer name to be
something simple, e.g. "`computer`".
* Run {kib} with `yarn start --host=computer.local` (substituting
your computer name).
* Now you can run your VM, open the browser, and navigate to
`http://computer.local:5601` to test {kib}.
* Alternatively you can use browserstack
