docs/api/saved-objects/bulk_delete.asciidoc, before:

[[saved-objects-api-bulk-delete]]
=== Bulk delete object API
++++
<titleabbrev>Bulk delete objects</titleabbrev>
++++

deprecated::[8.7.0, To be removed in an upcoming version]

Remove multiple {kib} saved objects.

WARNING: Once you delete a saved object, _it cannot be recovered_.

==== Request

`POST <kibana host>:<port>/api/saved_objects/_bulk_delete`

`POST <kibana host>:<port>/s/<space_id>/api/saved_objects/_bulk_delete`

==== Path parameters

`space_id`::
  (Optional, string) An identifier for the space. If `space_id` is not provided in the URL, the default space is used.

==== Request body

`type`::
  (Required, string) Valid options include `visualization`, `dashboard`, `search`, `index-pattern`, `config`.

`id`::
  (Required, string) The object ID to remove.

==== Query parameters

`force`::
  (Optional, boolean) When true, force delete objects that exist in multiple namespaces. Note that the option applies to the whole request. Use the <<saved-objects-api-delete, delete object>> to specify per-object delete behavior.
+
TIP: Use this if you attempted to delete objects and received an HTTP 400 error with the following message: _"Unable to delete saved object that exists in multiple namespaces, use the `force` option to delete it anyway"_
+
WARNING: When you bulk delete objects that exist in multiple namespaces, the API also deletes <<legacy-url-aliases, legacy url aliases>> that reference the object. These requests are batched to minimise the impact but they can place a heavy load on {kib}. Make sure you limit the number of objects that exist in multiple namespaces in a single bulk delete operation.

==== Response code
`200`::
  Indicates a successful call. Note, this HTTP response code indicates that the bulk operation succeeded. Errors pertaining to individual
  objects will be returned in the response body. Refer to the example below for details.

==== Response body

`statuses`::
  (array) Top-level property that contains objects that represent the response for each of the requested objects. The order of the objects in the response is identical to the order of the objects in the request.

Saved objects that cannot be removed will include an error object.

==== Example

Delete three saved objects, where one of them does not exist and one exists in multiple namespaces:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
$ curl -X POST api/saved_objects/_bulk_delete
[
  {
    type: 'visualization',
    id: 'not an id',
  },
  {
    type: 'dashboard',
    id: 'be3733a0-9efe-11e7-acb3-3dab96693fab',
  {
    type: 'index-pattern',
    id: 'd3d7af60-4c81-11e8-b3d7-01146121b73d',
  }
]
--------------------------------------------------
// KIBANA

The API returns the following:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "statuses": [
    {
      "success": false,
      "id": "not an id",
      "type": "visualization",
      "error": {
        "statusCode": 404,
        "error": "Not Found",
        "message": "Saved object [visualization/not an id] not found",
      },
    },
    {
      "success": true,
      "id": "be3733a0-9efe-11e7-acb3-3dab96693fab",
      "type": "dashboard",
    },
    {
      "success": false,
      "id": "d3d7af60-4c81-11e8-b3d7-01146121b73d",
      "type": "index-pattern",
      "error": {
        "statusCode": 400,
        "error": "Bad Request",
        "message": "Unable to delete saved object id: d3d7af60-4c81-11e8-b3d7-01146121b73d, type: index-pattern that exists in multiple namespaces, use the \"force\" option to delete all saved objects: Bad Request",
      },
    }
  ]
}
--------------------------------------------------

Commit message:

[OAS] Add deprecated saved object APIs (#164355)

docs/api/saved-objects/bulk_delete.asciidoc, after:

[[saved-objects-api-bulk-delete]]
=== Bulk delete object API
++++
<titleabbrev>Bulk delete objects</titleabbrev>
++++

deprecated::[8.7.0, To be removed in an upcoming version]

Remove multiple {kib} saved objects.

WARNING: Once you delete a saved object, _it cannot be recovered_.

[NOTE]
====
For the most up-to-date API details, refer to the
{kib-repo}/tree/{branch}/packages/core/saved-objects/docs/openapi[open API specification].
====

==== Request

`POST <kibana host>:<port>/api/saved_objects/_bulk_delete`

`POST <kibana host>:<port>/s/<space_id>/api/saved_objects/_bulk_delete`

==== Path parameters

`space_id`::
  (Optional, string) An identifier for the space. If `space_id` is not provided in the URL, the default space is used.

==== Request body

`type`::
  (Required, string) Valid options include `visualization`, `dashboard`, `search`, `index-pattern`, `config`.

`id`::
  (Required, string) The object ID to remove.

==== Query parameters

`force`::
  (Optional, boolean) When true, force delete objects that exist in multiple namespaces. Note that the option applies to the whole request. Use the <<saved-objects-api-delete, delete object>> to specify per-object delete behavior.
+
TIP: Use this if you attempted to delete objects and received an HTTP 400 error with the following message: _"Unable to delete saved object that exists in multiple namespaces, use the `force` option to delete it anyway"_
+
WARNING: When you bulk delete objects that exist in multiple namespaces, the API also deletes <<legacy-url-aliases, legacy url aliases>> that reference the object. These requests are batched to minimise the impact but they can place a heavy load on {kib}. Make sure you limit the number of objects that exist in multiple namespaces in a single bulk delete operation.

==== Response code
`200`::
  Indicates a successful call. Note, this HTTP response code indicates that the bulk operation succeeded. Errors pertaining to individual
  objects will be returned in the response body. Refer to the example below for details.

==== Response body

`statuses`::
  (array) Top-level property that contains objects that represent the response for each of the requested objects. The order of the objects in the response is identical to the order of the objects in the request.

Saved objects that cannot be removed will include an error object.

==== Example

Delete three saved objects, where one of them does not exist and one exists in multiple namespaces:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
$ curl -X POST api/saved_objects/_bulk_delete
[
  {
    type: 'visualization',
    id: 'not an id',
  },
  {
    type: 'dashboard',
    id: 'be3733a0-9efe-11e7-acb3-3dab96693fab',
  {
    type: 'index-pattern',
    id: 'd3d7af60-4c81-11e8-b3d7-01146121b73d',
  }
]
--------------------------------------------------
// KIBANA

The API returns the following:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "statuses": [
    {
      "success": false,
      "id": "not an id",
      "type": "visualization",
      "error": {
        "statusCode": 404,
        "error": "Not Found",
        "message": "Saved object [visualization/not an id] not found",
      },
    },
    {
      "success": true,
      "id": "be3733a0-9efe-11e7-acb3-3dab96693fab",
      "type": "dashboard",
    },
    {
      "success": false,
      "id": "d3d7af60-4c81-11e8-b3d7-01146121b73d",
      "type": "index-pattern",
      "error": {
        "statusCode": 400,
        "error": "Bad Request",
        "message": "Unable to delete saved object id: d3d7af60-4c81-11e8-b3d7-01146121b73d, type: index-pattern that exists in multiple namespaces, use the \"force\" option to delete all saved objects: Bad Request",
      },
    }
  ]
}
--------------------------------------------------
