docs/api/saved-objects/bulk_update.asciidoc, before:

[[saved-objects-api-bulk-update]]
=== Bulk update object API
++++
<titleabbrev>Bulk update objects</titleabbrev>
++++

deprecated::[8.7.0, To be removed in an upcoming version]

Update the attributes for multiple existing {kib} saved objects.

[[saved-objects-api-bulk-update-request]]
==== Request

`PUT <kibana host>:<port>/api/saved_objects/_bulk_update`

`PUT <kibana host>:<port>/s/<space_id>/api/saved_objects/_bulk_update`

[[saved-objects-api-bulk-update-path-params]]
==== Path parameters

`space_id`::
  (Optional, string) An identifier for the space. If `space_id` is not provided in the URL, the default space is used.

[[saved-objects-api-bulk-update-request-body]]
==== Request body

`type`::
  (Required, string) Valid options include `visualization`, `dashboard`, `search`, `index-pattern`, `config`.

`id`::
  (Required, string) The object ID to update.

`attributes`::
  (Required, object) The data to persist.
+
WARNING: When you update, attributes are not validated, which allows you to pass arbitrary and ill-formed data into the API and break {kib}. Make sure any data that you send to the API is properly formed.

`references`::
  (Optional, array) Objects with `name`, `id`, and `type` properties that describe the other saved objects this object references. To refer to the other saved object, use `name` in the attributes, but never the `id`, which automatically updates during migrations or import/export.

`version`::
  (Optional, number) Ensures the version matches that of the persisted object.
  
`namespace`:: (Optional, string) Identifier for the space in which to update this object. If this is defined, it will supersede the space ID that is in the URL.

[[saved-objects-api-bulk-update-codes]]
==== Response code

`200`::
  Indicates a successful call. Note, this HTTP response code indicates that the bulk operation succeeded. Errors pertaining to individual
  objects will be returned in the response body. Refer to the example below for details.

[[saved-objects-api-bulk-update-example]]
==== Example

Update three saved objects, where one of them does not exist:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
$ curl -X PUT api/saved_objects/_bulk_update
[
  {
    type: 'visualization',
    id: 'not an id',
    attributes: {
      title: 'An existing visualization',
    },
  },
  {
    type: 'dashboard',
    id: 'be3733a0-9efe-11e7-acb3-3dab96693fab',
    attributes: {
      title: 'An existing dashboard',
    },
  {
    type: 'index-pattern',
    id: 'logstash-*',
    attributes: { title: 'my-logstash-pattern' }
  }
]
--------------------------------------------------
// KIBANA

The API returns the following:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
[
  {
    "type": "visualization",
    "id": "not an id",
    "error": {
      "statusCode": 404,
      "error": "Not Found",
      "message": "Saved object [visualization/not an id] not found",
    },
  },
  {
    "type": "dashboard",
    "id": "be3733a0-9efe-11e7-acb3-3dab96693fab",
    "version": 2,
    "attributes": {
      "title": "An existing dashboard",
    },
  },
  {
    "type": "index-pattern",
    "id": "logstash-*",
    "attributes": { 
      "title": "my-logstash-pattern",
    }
  }
]
--------------------------------------------------

Commit message:

[OAS] Add 400 response codes and note in docs

docs/api/saved-objects/bulk_update.asciidoc, after:

[[saved-objects-api-bulk-update]]
=== Bulk update object API
++++
<titleabbrev>Bulk update objects</titleabbrev>
++++

deprecated::[8.7.0, To be removed in an upcoming version]

Update the attributes for multiple existing {kib} saved objects.

[NOTE]
====
For the most up-to-date API details, refer to the
{kib-repo}/tree/{branch}/packages/core/saved-objects/docs/openapi[open API specification].
====

[[saved-objects-api-bulk-update-request]]
==== Request

`PUT <kibana host>:<port>/api/saved_objects/_bulk_update`

`PUT <kibana host>:<port>/s/<space_id>/api/saved_objects/_bulk_update`

[[saved-objects-api-bulk-update-path-params]]
==== Path parameters

`space_id`::
  (Optional, string) An identifier for the space. If `space_id` is not provided in the URL, the default space is used.

[[saved-objects-api-bulk-update-request-body]]
==== Request body

`type`::
  (Required, string) Valid options include `visualization`, `dashboard`, `search`, `index-pattern`, `config`.

`id`::
  (Required, string) The object ID to update.

`attributes`::
  (Required, object) The data to persist.
+
WARNING: When you update, attributes are not validated, which allows you to pass arbitrary and ill-formed data into the API and break {kib}. Make sure any data that you send to the API is properly formed.

`references`::
  (Optional, array) Objects with `name`, `id`, and `type` properties that describe the other saved objects this object references. To refer to the other saved object, use `name` in the attributes, but never the `id`, which automatically updates during migrations or import/export.

`version`::
  (Optional, number) Ensures the version matches that of the persisted object.
  
`namespace`:: (Optional, string) Identifier for the space in which to update this object. If this is defined, it will supersede the space ID that is in the URL.

[[saved-objects-api-bulk-update-codes]]
==== Response code

`200`::
  Indicates a successful call. Note, this HTTP response code indicates that the bulk operation succeeded. Errors pertaining to individual
  objects will be returned in the response body. Refer to the example below for details.

[[saved-objects-api-bulk-update-example]]
==== Example

Update three saved objects, where one of them does not exist:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
$ curl -X PUT api/saved_objects/_bulk_update
[
  {
    type: 'visualization',
    id: 'not an id',
    attributes: {
      title: 'An existing visualization',
    },
  },
  {
    type: 'dashboard',
    id: 'be3733a0-9efe-11e7-acb3-3dab96693fab',
    attributes: {
      title: 'An existing dashboard',
    },
  {
    type: 'index-pattern',
    id: 'logstash-*',
    attributes: { title: 'my-logstash-pattern' }
  }
]
--------------------------------------------------
// KIBANA

The API returns the following:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
[
  {
    "type": "visualization",
    "id": "not an id",
    "error": {
      "statusCode": 404,
      "error": "Not Found",
      "message": "Saved object [visualization/not an id] not found",
    },
  },
  {
    "type": "dashboard",
    "id": "be3733a0-9efe-11e7-acb3-3dab96693fab",
    "version": 2,
    "attributes": {
      "title": "An existing dashboard",
    },
  },
  {
    "type": "index-pattern",
    "id": "logstash-*",
    "attributes": { 
      "title": "my-logstash-pattern",
    }
  }
]
--------------------------------------------------
