docs/api/saved-objects/create.asciidoc, before:

[[saved-objects-api-create]]
=== Create saved objects API
++++
<titleabbrev>Create saved objects</titleabbrev>
++++

deprecated::[8.7.0, To be removed in an upcoming version]

Create {kib} saved objects.

[[saved-objects-api-create-request]]
==== Request

`POST <kibana host>:<port>/api/saved_objects/<type>`

`POST <kibana host>:<port>/api/saved_objects/<type>/<id>`

`POST <kibana host>:<port>/s/<space_id>/api/saved_objects/<type>`

`POST <kibana host>:<port>/s/<space_id>/api/saved_objects/<type>/<id>`

[[saved-objects-api-create-path-params]]
==== Path parameters

`space_id`::
  (Optional, string) An identifier for the space. If `space_id` is not provided in the URL, the default space is used.

`<type>`::
  (Required, string) Valid options include `visualization`, `dashboard`, `search`, `index-pattern`, `config`.

`<id>`::
  (Optional, string) Specifies an ID instead of using a randomly generated ID.

[[saved-objects-api-create-query-params]]
==== Query parameters

`overwrite`::
  (Optional, boolean) When true, overwrites the document with the same ID.

[[saved-objects-api-create-request-body]]
==== Request body

`attributes`::
  (Required, object) The data that you want to create.
+
WARNING: When you create saved objects, attributes are not validated, which allows you to pass
arbitrary and ill-formed data into the API that can break {kib}. Make sure
any data that you send to the API is properly formed.

`references`::
  (Optional, array) Objects with `name`, `id`, and `type` properties that describe the other saved objects that this object references. Use `name` in attributes to refer to the other saved object, but never the `id`, which can update automatically during migrations or import/export.

`initialNamespaces`::
  (Optional, string array) Identifiers for the <<xpack-spaces,spaces>> in which this object is created. If this is provided, the
  object is created only in the explicitly defined spaces. If this is not provided, the object is created in the current space
  (default behavior).
* For shareable object types (registered with `namespaceType: 'multiple'`): this option can be used to specify one or more spaces, including
the "All spaces" identifier (`'*'`).
* For isolated object types (registered with `namespaceType: 'single'` or `namespaceType: 'multiple-isolated'`): this option can only be
used to specify a single space, and the "All spaces" identifier (`'*'`) is not allowed.
* For global object types (registered with `namespaceType: 'agnostic'): this option cannot be used.

[[saved-objects-api-create-request-codes]]
==== Response code

`200`::
    Indicates a successful call.

`409`::
    Indicates a <<saved-objects-api-create-conflict-errors,conflict error>>.

[[saved-objects-api-create-example]]
==== Example

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
$ curl -X POST api/index_patterns/index-pattern/my-pattern  -H 'kbn-xsrf: true' -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d '
{
  "attributes": {
    "title": "my-pattern-*"
  }
}'
--------------------------------------------------
// KIBANA

The API returns the following:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "id": "my-pattern", <1>
  "type": "index-pattern",
  "version": 1,
  "attributes": {
    "title": "my-pattern-*"
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------

<1> When `my-pattern` is unspecified in the path, a unique ID is automatically generated.

[[saved-objects-api-create-conflict-errors]]
==== Conflict errors

Starting in {kib} 8.0, saved objects can exist in multiple spaces. As a result, you may encounter different types of conflict errors when
attempting to create an object. If you encounter a 409 error that cannot be overridden by using the `overwrite: true` option, you are likely
hitting a different type of conflict error. The Create API response is limited and does not include additional metadata. You can get more
details about this error by using the <<saved-objects-api-bulk-create,Bulk create API>> instead.

Commit message:

[OAS] Add deprecated saved object APIs (#164355)

docs/api/saved-objects/create.asciidoc, after:

[[saved-objects-api-create]]
=== Create saved objects API
++++
<titleabbrev>Create saved objects</titleabbrev>
++++

deprecated::[8.7.0, To be removed in an upcoming version]

Create {kib} saved objects.

[NOTE]
====
For the most up-to-date API details, refer to the
{kib-repo}/tree/{branch}/packages/core/saved-objects/docs/openapi[open API specification].
====

[[saved-objects-api-create-request]]
==== Request

`POST <kibana host>:<port>/api/saved_objects/<type>`

`POST <kibana host>:<port>/api/saved_objects/<type>/<id>`

`POST <kibana host>:<port>/s/<space_id>/api/saved_objects/<type>`

`POST <kibana host>:<port>/s/<space_id>/api/saved_objects/<type>/<id>`

[[saved-objects-api-create-path-params]]
==== Path parameters

`space_id`::
  (Optional, string) An identifier for the space. If `space_id` is not provided in the URL, the default space is used.

`<type>`::
  (Required, string) Valid options include `visualization`, `dashboard`, `search`, `index-pattern`, `config`.

`<id>`::
  (Optional, string) Specifies an ID instead of using a randomly generated ID.

[[saved-objects-api-create-query-params]]
==== Query parameters

`overwrite`::
  (Optional, boolean) When true, overwrites the document with the same ID.

[[saved-objects-api-create-request-body]]
==== Request body

`attributes`::
  (Required, object) The data that you want to create.
+
WARNING: When you create saved objects, attributes are not validated, which allows you to pass
arbitrary and ill-formed data into the API that can break {kib}. Make sure
any data that you send to the API is properly formed.

`references`::
  (Optional, array) Objects with `name`, `id`, and `type` properties that describe the other saved objects that this object references. Use `name` in attributes to refer to the other saved object, but never the `id`, which can update automatically during migrations or import/export.

`initialNamespaces`::
  (Optional, string array) Identifiers for the <<xpack-spaces,spaces>> in which this object is created. If this is provided, the
  object is created only in the explicitly defined spaces. If this is not provided, the object is created in the current space
  (default behavior).
* For shareable object types (registered with `namespaceType: 'multiple'`): this option can be used to specify one or more spaces, including
the "All spaces" identifier (`'*'`).
* For isolated object types (registered with `namespaceType: 'single'` or `namespaceType: 'multiple-isolated'`): this option can only be
used to specify a single space, and the "All spaces" identifier (`'*'`) is not allowed.
* For global object types (registered with `namespaceType: 'agnostic'): this option cannot be used.

[[saved-objects-api-create-request-codes]]
==== Response code

`200`::
    Indicates a successful call.

`409`::
    Indicates a <<saved-objects-api-create-conflict-errors,conflict error>>.

[[saved-objects-api-create-example]]
==== Example

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
$ curl -X POST api/index_patterns/index-pattern/my-pattern  -H 'kbn-xsrf: true' -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d '
{
  "attributes": {
    "title": "my-pattern-*"
  }
}'
--------------------------------------------------
// KIBANA

The API returns the following:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "id": "my-pattern", <1>
  "type": "index-pattern",
  "version": 1,
  "attributes": {
    "title": "my-pattern-*"
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------

<1> When `my-pattern` is unspecified in the path, a unique ID is automatically generated.

[[saved-objects-api-create-conflict-errors]]
==== Conflict errors

Starting in {kib} 8.0, saved objects can exist in multiple spaces. As a result, you may encounter different types of conflict errors when
attempting to create an object. If you encounter a 409 error that cannot be overridden by using the `overwrite: true` option, you are likely
hitting a different type of conflict error. The Create API response is limited and does not include additional metadata. You can get more
details about this error by using the <<saved-objects-api-bulk-create,Bulk create API>> instead.
