docs/api/saved-objects/delete.asciidoc, before:

[[saved-objects-api-delete]]
=== Delete Object

beta[This functionality is *beta*. It's on track to become a stable, permanent feature of {kib}. Caution should be exercised because it is possible a breaking change to these APIs will occur in a minor version, but we’ll avoid this wherever possible. ]

The delete saved object API permanently removes a Kibana saved object. Once a
saved object has been deleted, _it cannot be recovered_.

Note: You cannot access this endpoint via the Console in Kibana.

==== Request

`DELETE /api/saved_objects/<type>/<id>`

==== Path Parameters

`type` (required)::
  (string) Valid options, include: `visualization`, `dashboard`, `search`, `index-pattern`, `config`, and `timelion-sheet`

`id` (required)::
  (string) Object ID being removed


==== Examples

The following example deletes an index pattern object with an ID of `my-pattern`

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
DELETE api/saved_objects/index-pattern/my-pattern
--------------------------------------------------
// KIBANA

A successful call returns a response code of `200`.

Commit message:

[7.x] [DOCS] New template for APIs (#39298) (#45282)
* Clean up

* Dashboard export API

* More changes

* role-management and saved-objects

* Clean up

* Final clean up

* Clean up

* Moved labels to appropriate places

* Fixed rogue commits

* Comment from Aleh

docs/api/saved-objects/delete.asciidoc, after:

[[saved-objects-api-delete]]
=== Delete object API
++++
<titleabbrev>Delete object</titleabbrev>
++++

Remove a {kib} saved object. 

WARNING: Once you delete a saved object, _it cannot be recovered_.

experimental[This functionality is *experimental* and may be changed or removed completely in a future release.]

[[saved-objects-api-delete-request]]
==== Request

`DELETE /api/saved_objects/<type>/<id>`

[[saved-objects-api-delete-path-params]]
==== Path parameters

`type`::
  (Required, string) Valid options include `visualization`, `dashboard`, `search`, `index-pattern`, `config`, and `timelion-sheet`.

`id`::
  (Required, string) The object ID that you want to remove.

[[saved-objects-api-delete-response-codes]]
==== Response code

`200`:: 
  Indicates a successful call.

==== Examples

Delete an index pattern object with the `my-pattern` ID:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
DELETE api/saved_objects/index-pattern/my-pattern
--------------------------------------------------
// KIBANA
