docs/api/saved-objects/find.asciidoc, before:

[[saved-objects-api-find]]
=== Find objects API
++++
<titleabbrev>Find objects</titleabbrev>
++++

deprecated::[8.7.0, To be removed in an upcoming version]

Retrieve a paginated set of {kib} saved objects by various conditions.

[[saved-objects-api-find-request]]
==== Request

`GET <kibana host>:<port>/api/saved_objects/_find`

`GET <kibana host>:<port>/s/<space_id>/api/saved_objects/_find`

[[saved-objects-api-find-path-params]]
==== Path parameters

`space_id`::
  (Optional, string) An identifier for the space. If `space_id` is not provided in the URL, the default space is used.

[[saved-objects-api-find-query-params]]
==== Query Parameters

`type`::
  (Required, array|string) The saved object types to include in the export.

`per_page`::
  (Optional, number) The number of objects to return per page.

`page`::
  (Optional, number) The page of objects to return.

`search`::
  (Optional, string) An Elasticsearch {ref}/query-dsl-simple-query-string-query.html[simple_query_string] query that filters the objects in the response.

`default_search_operator`::
  (Optional, string) The default operator to use for the `simple_query_string`.

`search_fields`::
  (Optional, array|string) The fields to perform the `simple_query_string` parsed query against.

`fields`::
  (Optional, array|string) The fields to return in the `attributes` key of the response.

`sort_field`::
  (Optional, string) Sorts the response. Includes "root" and "type" fields. "root" fields exist for all saved objects, such as "updated_at".
  "type" fields are specific to an object type, such as fields returned in the `attributes` key of the response. When a single type is
  defined in the `type` parameter, the "root" and "type" fields are allowed, and validity checks are made in that order. When multiple types
  are defined in the `type` parameter, only "root" fields are allowed.

`has_reference`::
  (Optional, object) Filters to objects that have a relationship with the type and ID combination.

`has_reference_operator`::
  (Optional, string) The operator to use for the `has_reference` parameter. Either `OR` or `AND`. Defaults to `OR`.

`has_no_reference`::
  (Optional, object) Filters to objects that do not have a relationship with the type and ID combination.

`has_no_reference_operator`::
  (Optional, string) The operator to use for the `has_no_reference` parameter. Either `OR` or `AND`. Defaults to `OR`.

`filter`::
  (Optional, string) The filter is a KQL string with the caveat that if you filter with an attribute from your saved object type,
  it should look like that: `savedObjectType.attributes.title: "myTitle"`. However, If you use a root attribute of a saved 
  object such as `updated_at`, you will have to define your filter like that: `savedObjectType.updated_at > 2018-12-22`.

`aggs`::
  (Optional, string) **experimental** An aggregation structure, serialized as a string. The field format is similar to `filter`, meaning
  that to use a saved object type attribute in the aggregation, the `savedObjectType.attributes.title`: "myTitle"` format
  must be used. For root fields, the syntax is `savedObjectType.rootField`

NOTE: As objects change in {kib}, the results on each page of the response also
change. Use the find API for traditional paginated results, but avoid using it to export large amounts of data.

[[saved-objects-api-find-request-codes]]
==== Response code

`200`::
    Indicates a successful call.

==== Examples

Find {data-sources} with titles that start with `my`:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
$ curl -X GET api/saved_objects/_find?type=index-pattern&search_fields=title&search=my*
--------------------------------------------------
// KIBANA

The API returns the following:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "total": 1,
  "data": [
    {
      "id": "my-pattern",
      "type": "index-pattern",
      "version": 1,
      "attributes": {
        "title": "my-pattern-*"
      }
    }
  ]
}
--------------------------------------------------

For parameters that accept multiple values (e.g. `fields`), repeat the
query parameter for each value:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
$ curl -X GET api/saved_objects/_find?fields=id&fields=title
--------------------------------------------------
// KIBANA

Commit message:

[OAS] Add deprecated saved object APIs

docs/api/saved-objects/find.asciidoc, after:

[[saved-objects-api-find]]
=== Find objects API
++++
<titleabbrev>Find objects</titleabbrev>
++++

deprecated::[8.7.0, To be removed in an upcoming version]

Retrieve a paginated set of {kib} saved objects by various conditions.

[NOTE]
====
For the most up-to-date API details, refer to the
{kib-repo}/tree/{branch}/packages/core/saved-objects/docs/openapi[open API specification].
====

[[saved-objects-api-find-request]]
==== Request

`GET <kibana host>:<port>/api/saved_objects/_find`

`GET <kibana host>:<port>/s/<space_id>/api/saved_objects/_find`

[[saved-objects-api-find-path-params]]
==== Path parameters

`space_id`::
  (Optional, string) An identifier for the space. If `space_id` is not provided in the URL, the default space is used.

[[saved-objects-api-find-query-params]]
==== Query Parameters

`type`::
  (Required, array|string) The saved object types to include in the export.

`per_page`::
  (Optional, number) The number of objects to return per page.

`page`::
  (Optional, number) The page of objects to return.

`search`::
  (Optional, string) An Elasticsearch {ref}/query-dsl-simple-query-string-query.html[simple_query_string] query that filters the objects in the response.

`default_search_operator`::
  (Optional, string) The default operator to use for the `simple_query_string`.

`search_fields`::
  (Optional, array|string) The fields to perform the `simple_query_string` parsed query against.

`fields`::
  (Optional, array|string) The fields to return in the `attributes` key of the response.

`sort_field`::
  (Optional, string) Sorts the response. Includes "root" and "type" fields. "root" fields exist for all saved objects, such as "updated_at".
  "type" fields are specific to an object type, such as fields returned in the `attributes` key of the response. When a single type is
  defined in the `type` parameter, the "root" and "type" fields are allowed, and validity checks are made in that order. When multiple types
  are defined in the `type` parameter, only "root" fields are allowed.

`has_reference`::
  (Optional, object) Filters to objects that have a relationship with the type and ID combination.

`has_reference_operator`::
  (Optional, string) The operator to use for the `has_reference` parameter. Either `OR` or `AND`. Defaults to `OR`.

`has_no_reference`::
  (Optional, object) Filters to objects that do not have a relationship with the type and ID combination.

`has_no_reference_operator`::
  (Optional, string) The operator to use for the `has_no_reference` parameter. Either `OR` or `AND`. Defaults to `OR`.

`filter`::
  (Optional, string) The filter is a KQL string with the caveat that if you filter with an attribute from your saved object type,
  it should look like that: `savedObjectType.attributes.title: "myTitle"`. However, If you use a root attribute of a saved 
  object such as `updated_at`, you will have to define your filter like that: `savedObjectType.updated_at > 2018-12-22`.

`aggs`::
  (Optional, string) **experimental** An aggregation structure, serialized as a string. The field format is similar to `filter`, meaning
  that to use a saved object type attribute in the aggregation, the `savedObjectType.attributes.title`: "myTitle"` format
  must be used. For root fields, the syntax is `savedObjectType.rootField`

NOTE: As objects change in {kib}, the results on each page of the response also
change. Use the find API for traditional paginated results, but avoid using it to export large amounts of data.

[[saved-objects-api-find-request-codes]]
==== Response code

`200`::
    Indicates a successful call.

==== Examples

Find {data-sources} with titles that start with `my`:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
$ curl -X GET api/saved_objects/_find?type=index-pattern&search_fields=title&search=my*
--------------------------------------------------
// KIBANA

The API returns the following:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "total": 1,
  "data": [
    {
      "id": "my-pattern",
      "type": "index-pattern",
      "version": 1,
      "attributes": {
        "title": "my-pattern-*"
      }
    }
  ]
}
--------------------------------------------------

For parameters that accept multiple values (e.g. `fields`), repeat the
query parameter for each value:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
$ curl -X GET api/saved_objects/_find?fields=id&fields=title
--------------------------------------------------
// KIBANA
