docs/api/saved-objects/get.asciidoc, before:

[[saved-objects-api-get]]
=== Get Object

beta[This functionality is *beta*. It's on track to become a stable, permanent feature of {kib}. Caution should be exercised because it is possible a breaking change to these APIs will occur in a minor version, but we’ll avoid this wherever possible. ]

The get saved object API enables you to retrieve a single Kibana saved object
by id.

Note: You cannot access this endpoint via the Console in Kibana.

==== Request

`GET /api/saved_objects/<type>/<id>`

==== Path Parameters

`type` (required)::
  (string) Valid options, include: `visualization`, `dashboard`, `search`, `index-pattern`, `config`, and `timelion-sheet`

`id` (required)::
  (string) ID of object to retrieve


==== Examples

The following example retrieves the index pattern object with an id of
`my-pattern`.

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
GET api/saved_objects/index-pattern/my-pattern
--------------------------------------------------
// KIBANA

A successful call returns a response code of `200` and a response body
containing a JSON structure similar to the following example:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "id": "my-pattern",
  "type": "index-pattern",
  "version": 1,
  "attributes": {
    "title": "my-pattern-*"
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------

Commit message:

[7.x] [DOCS] New template for APIs (#39298) (#45282)
* Clean up

* Dashboard export API

* More changes

* role-management and saved-objects

* Clean up

* Final clean up

* Clean up

* Moved labels to appropriate places

* Fixed rogue commits

* Comment from Aleh

docs/api/saved-objects/get.asciidoc, after:

[[saved-objects-api-get]]
=== Get object API
++++
<titleabbrev>Get object</titleabbrev>
++++

Retrieve a single {kib} saved object by ID.

experimental[This functionality is *experimental* and may be changed or removed completely in a future release.]

[[saved-objects-api-get-request]]
==== Request

`GET /api/saved_objects/<type>/<id>`

[[saved-objects-api-get-params]]
==== Path parameters

`type`::
  (Required, string) Valid options include `visualization`, `dashboard`, `search`, `index-pattern`, `config`, and `timelion-sheet`.

`id`::
  (Required, string) The ID of the object to retrieve.

[[saved-objects-api-get-codes]]
==== Response code

`200`:: 
    Indicates a successful call.

[[saved-objects-api-get-example]]      
==== Example

Retrieve the index pattern object with the `my-pattern` ID:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
GET api/saved_objects/index-pattern/my-pattern
--------------------------------------------------
// KIBANA

The API returns the following:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "id": "my-pattern",
  "type": "index-pattern",
  "version": 1,
  "attributes": {
    "title": "my-pattern-*"
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
