docs/api/saved-objects/import.asciidoc, before:

[[saved-objects-api-import]]
=== Import objects API
++++
<titleabbrev>Import objects</titleabbrev>
++++

experimental[] Create sets of {kib} saved objects from a file created by the export API.

==== Compatibility across versions
Saved objects can only be imported into the same version, a newer minor on the same major, or the next major. Exported saved objects are not backwards compatible and cannot be imported into an older version of {kib}. See the table below for compatibility examples:

|=======
| Exporting version | Importing version | Compatible?
| 6.7.x | 6.8.x | Yes
| 6.x.x | 7.x.x | Yes
| 7.x.x | 8.x.x | Yes
| 7.1.x | 7.15.x | Yes
| 7.x.x | 6.x.x | No
| 7.15.x | 7.1.x | No
| 6.x.x | 8.x.x | No
|=======

[[saved-objects-api-import-request]]
==== Request

`POST <kibana host>:<port>/api/saved_objects/_import`

`POST <kibana host>:<port>/s/<space_id>/api/saved_objects/_import`

[[saved-objects-api-import-path-params]]
==== Path parameters

`space_id`::
  (Optional, string) An identifier for the <<xpack-spaces,space>>. If `space_id` is not provided in the URL, the default space is used.

[[saved-objects-api-import-query-params]]
==== Query parameters

`createNewCopies`::
  (Optional, boolean) Creates copies of saved objects, regenerates each object ID, and resets the origin. When used, potential conflict
  errors are avoided.
+
NOTE: This option cannot be used with the `overwrite` and `compatibilityMode` options.

`overwrite`::
  (Optional, boolean) Overwrites saved objects when they already exist. When used, potential conflict errors are automatically resolved by
  overwriting the destination object.
+
NOTE: This option cannot be used with the `createNewCopies` option.

`compatibilityMode`::
  (Optional, boolean) Applies various adjustments to the saved objects that are being imported to maintain compatibility between different {kib}
  versions. Use this option only if you encounter issues with imported saved objects.
+
NOTE: This option cannot be used with the `createNewCopies` option.

[[saved-objects-api-import-request-body]]
==== Request body

The request body must include the multipart/form-data type.

`file`::
  A file exported using the export API.
+
NOTE: The <<savedObjects-maxImportExportSize, `savedObjects.maxImportExportSize`>> configuration setting
limits the number of saved objects which may be included in this file. Similarly, the
<<savedObjects-maxImportPayloadBytes, `savedObjects.maxImportPayloadBytes`>> setting limits the overall
size of the file that can be imported.

[[saved-objects-api-import-response-body]]
==== Response body

`success`::
  (boolean) Indicates when the import was successfully completed. When set to `false`, some objects may not have been created. For
  additional information, refer to the `errors` and `successResults` properties.

`successCount`::
  (number) Indicates the number of successfully imported records.

`errors`::
  (Optional, array) Indicates the import was unsuccessful and specifies the objects that failed to import.
+
NOTE: One object may result in multiple errors, which requires separate steps to resolve. For instance, a `missing_references` error and
`conflict` error).

`successResults`::
  (Optional, array) Indicates the objects that are successfully imported, with any metadata if applicable.
+
NOTE: Objects are only created when all resolvable errors are addressed, including conflicts and missing references. For information on how
to resolve errors, refer to the <<saved-objects-api-import-example,examples>>.

[[saved-objects-api-import-codes]]
==== Response code

`200`::
    Indicates a successful call.

[[saved-objects-api-import-example]]
==== Examples

[[saved-objects-api-import-example-1]]
===== Successful import with `createNewCopies` enabled

Import {a-data-source} and dashboard:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
$ curl -X POST api/saved_objects/_import?createNewCopies=true -H "kbn-xsrf: true" --form file=@file.ndjson
--------------------------------------------------
// KIBANA

The `file.ndjson` file contains the following:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
{"type":"index-pattern","id":"my-pattern","attributes":{"title":"my-pattern-*"}}
{"type":"dashboard","id":"my-dashboard","attributes":{"title":"Look at my dashboard"}}
--------------------------------------------------

The API returns the following:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "success": true,
  "successCount": 2,
  "successResults": [
    {
      "id": "my-pattern",
      "type": "index-pattern",
      "destinationId": "4aba3770-0d04-45e1-9e34-4cf0fd2165ae",
      "meta": {
        "icon": "indexPatternApp",
        "title": "my-pattern-*"
      }
    },
    {
      "id": "my-dashboard",
      "type": "dashboard",
      "destinationId": "c31d1eca-9bc0-4a81-b5f9-30c442824c48",
      "meta": {
        "icon": "dashboardApp",
        "title": "Look at my dashboard"
      }
    }
  ]
}
--------------------------------------------------

The result indicates a successful import, and both objects are created. Since these objects are created as new copies, each entry in the
`successResults` array includes a `destinationId` attribute.

[[saved-objects-api-import-example-2]]
===== Successful import with `createNewCopies` disabled

Import {a-data-source} and dashboard:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
$ curl -X POST api/saved_objects/_import -H "kbn-xsrf: true" --form file=@file.ndjson
--------------------------------------------------
// KIBANA

The `file.ndjson` file contains the following:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
{"type":"index-pattern","id":"my-pattern","attributes":{"title":"my-pattern-*"}}
{"type":"dashboard","id":"my-dashboard","attributes":{"title":"Look at my dashboard"}}
--------------------------------------------------

The API returns the following:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "success": true,
  "successCount": 2,
  "successResults": [
    {
      "id": "my-pattern",
      "type": "index-pattern",
      "meta": {
        "icon": "indexPatternApp",
        "title": "my-pattern-*"
      }
    },
    {
      "id": "my-dashboard",
      "type": "dashboard",
      "meta": {
        "icon": "dashboardApp",
        "title": "Look at my dashboard"
      }
    }
  ]
}
--------------------------------------------------

The result indicates a successful import, and both objects are created.

[[saved-objects-api-import-example-3]]
===== Failed import with conflict errors

Import {a-data-source}, visualization, *Canvas* workpad, and dashboard that include saved objects:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
$ curl -X POST api/saved_objects/_import -H "kbn-xsrf: true" --form file=@file.ndjson
--------------------------------------------------
// KIBANA

The `file.ndjson` file contains the following:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
{"type":"index-pattern","id":"my-pattern","attributes":{"title":"my-pattern-*"}}
{"type":"visualization","id":"my-vis","attributes":{"title":"Look at my visualization"}}
{"type":"canvas-workpad","id":"my-canvas","attributes":{"name":"Look at my canvas"}}
{"type":"dashboard","id":"my-dashboard","attributes":{"title":"Look at my dashboard"}}
--------------------------------------------------

The API returns the following:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "success": false,
  "successCount": 1,
  "errors": [
    {
      "id": "my-pattern",
      "type": "index-pattern",
      "title": "my-pattern-*",
      "error": {
        "type": "conflict"
      },
      "meta": {
        "icon": "indexPatternApp",
        "title": "my-pattern-*"
      }
    },
    {
      "id": "my-visualization",
      "type": "my-vis",
      "title": "Look at my visualization",
      "error": {
        "type": "conflict",
        "destinationId": "another-vis"
      },
      "meta": {
        "icon": "visualizeApp",
        "title": "Look at my visualization"
      }
    },
    {
      "id": "my-canvas",
      "type": "canvas-workpad",
      "title": "Look at my canvas",
      "error": {
        "type": "ambiguous_conflict",
        "destinations": [
          {
            "id": "another-canvas",
            "title": "Look at another canvas",
            "updatedAt": "2020-07-08T16:36:32.377Z"
          },
          {
            "id": "yet-another-canvas",
            "title": "Look at yet another canvas",
            "updatedAt": "2020-07-05T12:29:54.849Z"
          }
        ]
      },
      "meta": {
        "icon": "canvasApp",
        "title": "Look at my canvas"
      }
    }
  ],
  "successResults": [
    {
      "id": "my-dashboard",
      "type": "dashboard",
      "meta": {
        "icon": "dashboardApp",
        "title": "Look at my dashboard"
      }
    }
  ]
}
--------------------------------------------------

The result indicates an unsuccessful import because the {data-source}, visualization, *Canvas* workpad, and dashboard resulted in a conflict
error:

* A {data-source} with the same ID already exists, which resulted in a conflict error. To resolve the error, overwrite the existing object,
or skip the object.

* A visualization with a different ID, but the same origin already exists, which resulted in a conflict error. The `destinationId` field
contains the `id` of the other visualization, which caused the conflict. The behavior is added to make sure that new objects that can be
shared between <<xpack-spaces,spaces>> behave in a similar way as legacy non-shareable objects. When a shareable object is exported and then
imported into a new space, it retains its origin so that the conflicts are encountered as expected. To resolve, overwrite the specified
destination object, or skip the object.

* Two *Canvas* workpads with different IDs, but the same origin, already exist, which resulted in a conflict error. The `destinations` array
describes the other workpads which caused the conflict. When a shareable object is exported, imported into a new space, then shared to
another space where an object of the same origin exists, the conflict error occurs. To resolve, pick a destination object to overwrite, or
skip the object.

Objects are created when the error is resolved using the <<saved-objects-api-resolve-import-errors-example-1,Resolve import errors API>>.

[[saved-objects-api-import-example-4]]
===== Failed import with missing reference errors

Import a visualization and dashboard when the {data-source} for the visualization doesn't exist:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
$ curl -X POST api/saved_objects/_import -H "kbn-xsrf: true" --form file=@file.ndjson
--------------------------------------------------
// KIBANA

The `file.ndjson` file contains the following:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
{"type":"visualization","id":"my-vis","attributes":{"title":"Look at my visualization"},"references":[{"name":"ref_0","type":"index-pattern","id":"my-pattern-*"}]}
{"type":"search","id":"my-search","attributes":{"title":"Look at my search"},"references":[{"name":"ref_0","type":"index-pattern","id":"another-pattern-*"}]}
{"type":"dashboard","id":"my-dashboard","attributes":{"title":"Look at my dashboard"},"references":[{"name":"ref_0","type":"visualization","id":"my-vis"},{"name":"ref_1","type":"search","id":"my-search"}]}
--------------------------------------------------

The API returns the following:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "success": false,
  "successCount": 1,
  "errors": [
    {
      "id": "my-vis",
      "type": "visualization",
      "title": "Look at my visualization",
      "error": {
        "type": "missing_references",
        "references": [
          {
            "type": "index-pattern",
            "id": "my-pattern-*"
          }
        ]
      },
      "meta": {
        "icon": "visualizeApp",
        "title": "Look at my visualization"
      }
    },
    {
      "id": "my-search",
      "type": "search",
      "title": "Look at my search",
      "error": {
        "type": "missing_references",
        "references": [
          {
            "type": "index-pattern",
            "id": "another-pattern-*"
          }
        ]
      },
      "meta": {
        "icon": "searchApp",
        "title": "Look at my search"
      }
    }
  ],
  "successResults": [
    {
      "id": "my-dashboard",
      "type": "dashboard",
      "meta": {
        "icon": "dashboardApp",
        "title": "Look at my dashboard"
      }
    }
  ]
}
--------------------------------------------------

The result indicates an unsuccessful import because the visualization and search resulted in a missing references error.

Objects are created when the errors are resolved using the <<saved-objects-api-resolve-import-errors-example-2,Resolve import errors API>>.

Commit message:

[DOCS] Add note to API docs

docs/api/saved-objects/import.asciidoc, after:

[[saved-objects-api-import]]
=== Import objects API
++++
<titleabbrev>Import objects</titleabbrev>
++++

experimental[] Create sets of {kib} saved objects from a file created by the export API.

[NOTE]
====
For the most up-to-date API details, refer to the
{kib-repo}/tree/{branch}/packages/core/saved-objects/docs/openapi[open API specification].
====

==== Compatibility across versions
Saved objects can only be imported into the same version, a newer minor on the same major, or the next major. Exported saved objects are not backwards compatible and cannot be imported into an older version of {kib}. See the table below for compatibility examples:

|=======
| Exporting version | Importing version | Compatible?
| 6.7.x | 6.8.x | Yes
| 6.x.x | 7.x.x | Yes
| 7.x.x | 8.x.x | Yes
| 7.1.x | 7.15.x | Yes
| 7.x.x | 6.x.x | No
| 7.15.x | 7.1.x | No
| 6.x.x | 8.x.x | No
|=======

[[saved-objects-api-import-request]]
==== Request

`POST <kibana host>:<port>/api/saved_objects/_import`

`POST <kibana host>:<port>/s/<space_id>/api/saved_objects/_import`

[[saved-objects-api-import-path-params]]
==== Path parameters

`space_id`::
  (Optional, string) An identifier for the <<xpack-spaces,space>>. If `space_id` is not provided in the URL, the default space is used.

[[saved-objects-api-import-query-params]]
==== Query parameters

`createNewCopies`::
  (Optional, boolean) Creates copies of saved objects, regenerates each object ID, and resets the origin. When used, potential conflict
  errors are avoided.
+
NOTE: This option cannot be used with the `overwrite` and `compatibilityMode` options.

`overwrite`::
  (Optional, boolean) Overwrites saved objects when they already exist. When used, potential conflict errors are automatically resolved by
  overwriting the destination object.
+
NOTE: This option cannot be used with the `createNewCopies` option.

`compatibilityMode`::
  (Optional, boolean) Applies various adjustments to the saved objects that are being imported to maintain compatibility between different {kib}
  versions. Use this option only if you encounter issues with imported saved objects.
+
NOTE: This option cannot be used with the `createNewCopies` option.

[[saved-objects-api-import-request-body]]
==== Request body

The request body must include the multipart/form-data type.

`file`::
  A file exported using the export API.
+
NOTE: The <<savedObjects-maxImportExportSize, `savedObjects.maxImportExportSize`>> configuration setting
limits the number of saved objects which may be included in this file. Similarly, the
<<savedObjects-maxImportPayloadBytes, `savedObjects.maxImportPayloadBytes`>> setting limits the overall
size of the file that can be imported.

[[saved-objects-api-import-response-body]]
==== Response body

`success`::
  (boolean) Indicates when the import was successfully completed. When set to `false`, some objects may not have been created. For
  additional information, refer to the `errors` and `successResults` properties.

`successCount`::
  (number) Indicates the number of successfully imported records.

`errors`::
  (Optional, array) Indicates the import was unsuccessful and specifies the objects that failed to import.
+
NOTE: One object may result in multiple errors, which requires separate steps to resolve. For instance, a `missing_references` error and
`conflict` error).

`successResults`::
  (Optional, array) Indicates the objects that are successfully imported, with any metadata if applicable.
+
NOTE: Objects are only created when all resolvable errors are addressed, including conflicts and missing references. For information on how
to resolve errors, refer to the <<saved-objects-api-import-example,examples>>.

[[saved-objects-api-import-codes]]
==== Response code

`200`::
    Indicates a successful call.

[[saved-objects-api-import-example]]
==== Examples

[[saved-objects-api-import-example-1]]
===== Successful import with `createNewCopies` enabled

Import {a-data-source} and dashboard:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
$ curl -X POST api/saved_objects/_import?createNewCopies=true -H "kbn-xsrf: true" --form file=@file.ndjson
--------------------------------------------------
// KIBANA

The `file.ndjson` file contains the following:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
{"type":"index-pattern","id":"my-pattern","attributes":{"title":"my-pattern-*"}}
{"type":"dashboard","id":"my-dashboard","attributes":{"title":"Look at my dashboard"}}
--------------------------------------------------

The API returns the following:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "success": true,
  "successCount": 2,
  "successResults": [
    {
      "id": "my-pattern",
      "type": "index-pattern",
      "destinationId": "4aba3770-0d04-45e1-9e34-4cf0fd2165ae",
      "meta": {
        "icon": "indexPatternApp",
        "title": "my-pattern-*"
      }
    },
    {
      "id": "my-dashboard",
      "type": "dashboard",
      "destinationId": "c31d1eca-9bc0-4a81-b5f9-30c442824c48",
      "meta": {
        "icon": "dashboardApp",
        "title": "Look at my dashboard"
      }
    }
  ]
}
--------------------------------------------------

The result indicates a successful import, and both objects are created. Since these objects are created as new copies, each entry in the
`successResults` array includes a `destinationId` attribute.

[[saved-objects-api-import-example-2]]
===== Successful import with `createNewCopies` disabled

Import {a-data-source} and dashboard:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
$ curl -X POST api/saved_objects/_import -H "kbn-xsrf: true" --form file=@file.ndjson
--------------------------------------------------
// KIBANA

The `file.ndjson` file contains the following:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
{"type":"index-pattern","id":"my-pattern","attributes":{"title":"my-pattern-*"}}
{"type":"dashboard","id":"my-dashboard","attributes":{"title":"Look at my dashboard"}}
--------------------------------------------------

The API returns the following:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "success": true,
  "successCount": 2,
  "successResults": [
    {
      "id": "my-pattern",
      "type": "index-pattern",
      "meta": {
        "icon": "indexPatternApp",
        "title": "my-pattern-*"
      }
    },
    {
      "id": "my-dashboard",
      "type": "dashboard",
      "meta": {
        "icon": "dashboardApp",
        "title": "Look at my dashboard"
      }
    }
  ]
}
--------------------------------------------------

The result indicates a successful import, and both objects are created.

[[saved-objects-api-import-example-3]]
===== Failed import with conflict errors

Import {a-data-source}, visualization, *Canvas* workpad, and dashboard that include saved objects:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
$ curl -X POST api/saved_objects/_import -H "kbn-xsrf: true" --form file=@file.ndjson
--------------------------------------------------
// KIBANA

The `file.ndjson` file contains the following:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
{"type":"index-pattern","id":"my-pattern","attributes":{"title":"my-pattern-*"}}
{"type":"visualization","id":"my-vis","attributes":{"title":"Look at my visualization"}}
{"type":"canvas-workpad","id":"my-canvas","attributes":{"name":"Look at my canvas"}}
{"type":"dashboard","id":"my-dashboard","attributes":{"title":"Look at my dashboard"}}
--------------------------------------------------

The API returns the following:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "success": false,
  "successCount": 1,
  "errors": [
    {
      "id": "my-pattern",
      "type": "index-pattern",
      "title": "my-pattern-*",
      "error": {
        "type": "conflict"
      },
      "meta": {
        "icon": "indexPatternApp",
        "title": "my-pattern-*"
      }
    },
    {
      "id": "my-visualization",
      "type": "my-vis",
      "title": "Look at my visualization",
      "error": {
        "type": "conflict",
        "destinationId": "another-vis"
      },
      "meta": {
        "icon": "visualizeApp",
        "title": "Look at my visualization"
      }
    },
    {
      "id": "my-canvas",
      "type": "canvas-workpad",
      "title": "Look at my canvas",
      "error": {
        "type": "ambiguous_conflict",
        "destinations": [
          {
            "id": "another-canvas",
            "title": "Look at another canvas",
            "updatedAt": "2020-07-08T16:36:32.377Z"
          },
          {
            "id": "yet-another-canvas",
            "title": "Look at yet another canvas",
            "updatedAt": "2020-07-05T12:29:54.849Z"
          }
        ]
      },
      "meta": {
        "icon": "canvasApp",
        "title": "Look at my canvas"
      }
    }
  ],
  "successResults": [
    {
      "id": "my-dashboard",
      "type": "dashboard",
      "meta": {
        "icon": "dashboardApp",
        "title": "Look at my dashboard"
      }
    }
  ]
}
--------------------------------------------------

The result indicates an unsuccessful import because the {data-source}, visualization, *Canvas* workpad, and dashboard resulted in a conflict
error:

* A {data-source} with the same ID already exists, which resulted in a conflict error. To resolve the error, overwrite the existing object,
or skip the object.

* A visualization with a different ID, but the same origin already exists, which resulted in a conflict error. The `destinationId` field
contains the `id` of the other visualization, which caused the conflict. The behavior is added to make sure that new objects that can be
shared between <<xpack-spaces,spaces>> behave in a similar way as legacy non-shareable objects. When a shareable object is exported and then
imported into a new space, it retains its origin so that the conflicts are encountered as expected. To resolve, overwrite the specified
destination object, or skip the object.

* Two *Canvas* workpads with different IDs, but the same origin, already exist, which resulted in a conflict error. The `destinations` array
describes the other workpads which caused the conflict. When a shareable object is exported, imported into a new space, then shared to
another space where an object of the same origin exists, the conflict error occurs. To resolve, pick a destination object to overwrite, or
skip the object.

Objects are created when the error is resolved using the <<saved-objects-api-resolve-import-errors-example-1,Resolve import errors API>>.

[[saved-objects-api-import-example-4]]
===== Failed import with missing reference errors

Import a visualization and dashboard when the {data-source} for the visualization doesn't exist:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
$ curl -X POST api/saved_objects/_import -H "kbn-xsrf: true" --form file=@file.ndjson
--------------------------------------------------
// KIBANA

The `file.ndjson` file contains the following:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
{"type":"visualization","id":"my-vis","attributes":{"title":"Look at my visualization"},"references":[{"name":"ref_0","type":"index-pattern","id":"my-pattern-*"}]}
{"type":"search","id":"my-search","attributes":{"title":"Look at my search"},"references":[{"name":"ref_0","type":"index-pattern","id":"another-pattern-*"}]}
{"type":"dashboard","id":"my-dashboard","attributes":{"title":"Look at my dashboard"},"references":[{"name":"ref_0","type":"visualization","id":"my-vis"},{"name":"ref_1","type":"search","id":"my-search"}]}
--------------------------------------------------

The API returns the following:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "success": false,
  "successCount": 1,
  "errors": [
    {
      "id": "my-vis",
      "type": "visualization",
      "title": "Look at my visualization",
      "error": {
        "type": "missing_references",
        "references": [
          {
            "type": "index-pattern",
            "id": "my-pattern-*"
          }
        ]
      },
      "meta": {
        "icon": "visualizeApp",
        "title": "Look at my visualization"
      }
    },
    {
      "id": "my-search",
      "type": "search",
      "title": "Look at my search",
      "error": {
        "type": "missing_references",
        "references": [
          {
            "type": "index-pattern",
            "id": "another-pattern-*"
          }
        ]
      },
      "meta": {
        "icon": "searchApp",
        "title": "Look at my search"
      }
    }
  ],
  "successResults": [
    {
      "id": "my-dashboard",
      "type": "dashboard",
      "meta": {
        "icon": "dashboardApp",
        "title": "Look at my dashboard"
      }
    }
  ]
}
--------------------------------------------------

The result indicates an unsuccessful import because the visualization and search resulted in a missing references error.

Objects are created when the errors are resolved using the <<saved-objects-api-resolve-import-errors-example-2,Resolve import errors API>>.
