docs/api/saved-objects/resolve.asciidoc, before:

[[saved-objects-api-resolve]]
=== Resolve object API
++++
<titleabbrev>Resolve object</titleabbrev>
++++

deprecated::[8.7.0, To be removed in an upcoming version]

Retrieve a single {kib} saved object by ID, using any legacy URL alias if it exists.

Under certain circumstances, when Kibana is upgraded, saved object migrations may necessitate regenerating some object IDs to enable new
features. When an object's ID is regenerated, a legacy URL alias is created for that object, preserving its old ID. In such a scenario, that
object can be retrieved via the Resolve API using either its new ID or its old ID.

[[saved-objects-api-resolve-request]]
==== Request

`GET <kibana host>:<port>/api/saved_objects/resolve/<type>/<id>`

`GET <kibana host>:<port>/s/<space_id>/api/saved_objects/resolve/<type>/<id>`

[[saved-objects-api-resolve-params]]
==== Path parameters

`space_id`::
  (Optional, string) An identifier for the space. If `space_id` is not provided in the URL, the default space is used.


`type`::
  (Required, string) Valid options include `visualization`, `dashboard`, `search`, `index-pattern`, `config`.

`id`::
  (Required, string) The ID of the object to retrieve.

[[saved-objects-api-resolve-codes]]
==== Response code

`200`::
    Indicates a successful call.

[[saved-objects-api-resolve-example]]
==== Example

Retrieve the {data-source} object with the `my-pattern` ID:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
$ curl -X GET api/saved_objects/resolve/index-pattern/my-pattern
--------------------------------------------------
// KIBANA

The API returns the following:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "saved_object": {
    "id": "my-pattern",
    "type": "index-pattern",
    "version": 1,
    "attributes": {
      "title": "my-pattern-*"
    }
  },
  "outcome": "exactMatch"
}
--------------------------------------------------

[NOTE]
====
In addition to `saved_object`, several fields can be returned:

* `outcome` (required string) -- One of the following values:
   - `"exactMatch"` -- One document exactly matched the given ID.
   - `"aliasMatch"` -- One document with a legacy URL alias matched the given ID; in this case the `saved_object.id` field is different than
     the given ID.
   - `"conflict"` -- Two documents matched the given ID, one was an exact match and another with a legacy URL alias; in this case the
     `saved_object` object is the exact match, and the `saved_object.id` field is the same as the given ID.
* `alias_target_id` (optional string) -- If the `outcome` is `"aliasMatch"` or `"conflict"`, the response will also include the
  `alias_target_id` field. This means that an alias was found for another object, and it describes that other object's ID.
* `alias_purpose` (optional string) -- If the `outcome` is `"aliasMatch"` or `"conflict"`, the response will also include the
  `alias_purpose` field. This indicates why the alias was created, and it can be used to change the client behavior accordingly. One of the
  following values: `"savedObjectConversion"`, `"savedObjectImport"`

Client-side code uses these fields to behave differently depending on the `outcome` -- <<sharing-saved-objects-step-3,learn more>>.
====

Retrieve a dashboard object in the `testspace` by ID:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
$ curl -X GET s/testspace/api/saved_objects/resolve/dashboard/7adfa750-4c81-11e8-b3d7-01146121b73d
--------------------------------------------------
// KIBANA

The API returns the following:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "saved_object": {
    "id": "7adfa750-4c81-11e8-b3d7-01146121b73d",
    "type": "dashboard",
    "updated_at": "2019-07-23T00:11:07.059Z",
    "version": "WzQ0LDFd",
    "attributes": {
      "title": "[Flights] Global Flight Dashboard",
      "hits": 0,
      "description": "Analyze mock flight data for ES-Air, Logstash Airways, Kibana Airlines and JetBeats",
      "panelsJSON": "[ . . . ]",
      "optionsJSON": "{\"hidePanelTitles\":false,\"useMargins\":true}",
      "version": 1,
      "timeRestore": true,
      "timeTo": "now",
      "timeFrom": "now-24h",
      "refreshInterval": {
        "display": "15 minutes",
        "pause": false,
        "section": 2,
        "value": 900000
      },
      "kibanaSavedObjectMeta": {
        "searchSourceJSON": "{\"query\":{\"language\":\"kuery\",\"query\":\"\"},\"filter\":[],\"highlightAll\":true,\"version\":true}"
      }
    },
    "references": [
      {
        "name": "panel_0",
        "type": "visualization",
        "id": "aeb212e0-4c84-11e8-b3d7-01146121b73d"
      },
      . . .
      {
        "name": "panel_18",
        "type": "visualization",
        "id": "ed78a660-53a0-11e8-acbd-0be0ad9d822b"
      }
    ],
    "migrationVersion": {
      "dashboard": "7.0.0"
    }
  },
  "outcome": "conflict",
  "alias_target_id": "05becb88-e214-439a-a2ac-15fc783b5d01"
}
--------------------------------------------------

Commit message:

[OAS] Add 400 response codes and note in docs

docs/api/saved-objects/resolve.asciidoc, after:

[[saved-objects-api-resolve]]
=== Resolve object API
++++
<titleabbrev>Resolve object</titleabbrev>
++++

deprecated::[8.7.0, To be removed in an upcoming version]

Retrieve a single {kib} saved object by ID, using any legacy URL alias if it exists.

Under certain circumstances, when Kibana is upgraded, saved object migrations may necessitate regenerating some object IDs to enable new
features. When an object's ID is regenerated, a legacy URL alias is created for that object, preserving its old ID. In such a scenario, that
object can be retrieved via the Resolve API using either its new ID or its old ID.

[NOTE]
====
For the most up-to-date API details, refer to the
{kib-repo}/tree/{branch}/packages/core/saved-objects/docs/openapi[open API specification].
====

[[saved-objects-api-resolve-request]]
==== Request

`GET <kibana host>:<port>/api/saved_objects/resolve/<type>/<id>`

`GET <kibana host>:<port>/s/<space_id>/api/saved_objects/resolve/<type>/<id>`

[[saved-objects-api-resolve-params]]
==== Path parameters

`space_id`::
  (Optional, string) An identifier for the space. If `space_id` is not provided in the URL, the default space is used.


`type`::
  (Required, string) Valid options include `visualization`, `dashboard`, `search`, `index-pattern`, `config`.

`id`::
  (Required, string) The ID of the object to retrieve.

[[saved-objects-api-resolve-codes]]
==== Response code

`200`::
    Indicates a successful call.

[[saved-objects-api-resolve-example]]
==== Example

Retrieve the {data-source} object with the `my-pattern` ID:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
$ curl -X GET api/saved_objects/resolve/index-pattern/my-pattern
--------------------------------------------------
// KIBANA

The API returns the following:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "saved_object": {
    "id": "my-pattern",
    "type": "index-pattern",
    "version": 1,
    "attributes": {
      "title": "my-pattern-*"
    }
  },
  "outcome": "exactMatch"
}
--------------------------------------------------

[NOTE]
====
In addition to `saved_object`, several fields can be returned:

* `outcome` (required string) -- One of the following values:
   - `"exactMatch"` -- One document exactly matched the given ID.
   - `"aliasMatch"` -- One document with a legacy URL alias matched the given ID; in this case the `saved_object.id` field is different than
     the given ID.
   - `"conflict"` -- Two documents matched the given ID, one was an exact match and another with a legacy URL alias; in this case the
     `saved_object` object is the exact match, and the `saved_object.id` field is the same as the given ID.
* `alias_target_id` (optional string) -- If the `outcome` is `"aliasMatch"` or `"conflict"`, the response will also include the
  `alias_target_id` field. This means that an alias was found for another object, and it describes that other object's ID.
* `alias_purpose` (optional string) -- If the `outcome` is `"aliasMatch"` or `"conflict"`, the response will also include the
  `alias_purpose` field. This indicates why the alias was created, and it can be used to change the client behavior accordingly. One of the
  following values: `"savedObjectConversion"`, `"savedObjectImport"`

Client-side code uses these fields to behave differently depending on the `outcome` -- <<sharing-saved-objects-step-3,learn more>>.
====

Retrieve a dashboard object in the `testspace` by ID:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
$ curl -X GET s/testspace/api/saved_objects/resolve/dashboard/7adfa750-4c81-11e8-b3d7-01146121b73d
--------------------------------------------------
// KIBANA

The API returns the following:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "saved_object": {
    "id": "7adfa750-4c81-11e8-b3d7-01146121b73d",
    "type": "dashboard",
    "updated_at": "2019-07-23T00:11:07.059Z",
    "version": "WzQ0LDFd",
    "attributes": {
      "title": "[Flights] Global Flight Dashboard",
      "hits": 0,
      "description": "Analyze mock flight data for ES-Air, Logstash Airways, Kibana Airlines and JetBeats",
      "panelsJSON": "[ . . . ]",
      "optionsJSON": "{\"hidePanelTitles\":false,\"useMargins\":true}",
      "version": 1,
      "timeRestore": true,
      "timeTo": "now",
      "timeFrom": "now-24h",
      "refreshInterval": {
        "display": "15 minutes",
        "pause": false,
        "section": 2,
        "value": 900000
      },
      "kibanaSavedObjectMeta": {
        "searchSourceJSON": "{\"query\":{\"language\":\"kuery\",\"query\":\"\"},\"filter\":[],\"highlightAll\":true,\"version\":true}"
      }
    },
    "references": [
      {
        "name": "panel_0",
        "type": "visualization",
        "id": "aeb212e0-4c84-11e8-b3d7-01146121b73d"
      },
      . . .
      {
        "name": "panel_18",
        "type": "visualization",
        "id": "ed78a660-53a0-11e8-acbd-0be0ad9d822b"
      }
    ],
    "migrationVersion": {
      "dashboard": "7.0.0"
    }
  },
  "outcome": "conflict",
  "alias_target_id": "05becb88-e214-439a-a2ac-15fc783b5d01"
}
--------------------------------------------------
