docs/api/saved-objects/update.asciidoc, before:

[[saved-objects-api-update]]
=== Update object API
++++
<titleabbrev>Update object</titleabbrev>
++++

deprecated::[8.7.0, To be removed in an upcoming version]

Update the attributes for existing {kib} saved objects.

[[saved-objects-api-update-request]]
==== Request

`PUT <kibana host>:<port>/api/saved_objects/<type>/<id>`

`PUT <kibana host>:<port>/s/<space_id>/api/saved_objects/<type>/<id>`

[[saved-objects-api-update-path-params]]
==== Path parameters

`space_id`::
  (Optional, string) An identifier for the space. If `space_id` is not provided in the URL, the default space is used.

`type`::
  (Required, string) Valid options include `visualization`, `dashboard`, `search`, `index-pattern`, `config`.

`id`::
  (Required, string) The object ID to update.

[[saved-objects-api-update-request-body]]
==== Request body

`attributes`::
  (Required, object) The data to persist.
+
WARNING: When you update, attributes are not validated, which allows you to pass arbitrary and ill-formed data into the API and break {kib}. Make sure any data that you send to the API is properly formed.

`references`::
  (Optional, array) Objects with `name`, `id`, and `type` properties that describe the other saved objects this object references. To refer to the other saved object, use `name` in the attributes, but never the `id`, which automatically updates during migrations or import/export.

`upsert`::
  (Optional, object) If specified, will create the document with the given upsert attributes if it doesn't exist. 

[[saved-objects-api-update-errors-codes]]
==== Response code

`200`::
    Indicates a successful call.

`404`::
    Indicates the object was not found.

`409`::
    Indicates a <<saved-objects-api-update-conflict-errors,conflict error>>.

[[saved-objects-api-update-example]]
==== Example

Update an existing {data-source} object,`my-pattern`, with a different title:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
$ curl -X PUT api/index_patterns/index-pattern/my-pattern
{
  "attributes": {
    "title": "some-other-pattern-*"
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// KIBANA

The API returns the following:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "id": "my-pattern",
  "type": "index-pattern",
  "version": 2,
  "attributes": {
    "title": "some-other-pattern-*"
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------

[[saved-objects-api-update-conflict-errors]]
==== Conflict errors

Starting in {kib} 8.0, saved objects can exist in multiple spaces. As a result, you may encounter a 409 *alias conflict* error when using
the `upsert` option. The Update API response is limited and does not include additional metadata. You can get more details about this error
by using the <<saved-objects-api-bulk-create,Bulk create API>> instead.

Commit message:

[OAS] Add deprecated saved object APIs (#164355)

docs/api/saved-objects/update.asciidoc, after:

[[saved-objects-api-update]]
=== Update object API
++++
<titleabbrev>Update object</titleabbrev>
++++

deprecated::[8.7.0, To be removed in an upcoming version]

Update the attributes for existing {kib} saved objects.

[NOTE]
====
For the most up-to-date API details, refer to the
{kib-repo}/tree/{branch}/packages/core/saved-objects/docs/openapi[open API specification].
====

[[saved-objects-api-update-request]]
==== Request

`PUT <kibana host>:<port>/api/saved_objects/<type>/<id>`

`PUT <kibana host>:<port>/s/<space_id>/api/saved_objects/<type>/<id>`

[[saved-objects-api-update-path-params]]
==== Path parameters

`space_id`::
  (Optional, string) An identifier for the space. If `space_id` is not provided in the URL, the default space is used.

`type`::
  (Required, string) Valid options include `visualization`, `dashboard`, `search`, `index-pattern`, `config`.

`id`::
  (Required, string) The object ID to update.

[[saved-objects-api-update-request-body]]
==== Request body

`attributes`::
  (Required, object) The data to persist.
+
WARNING: When you update, attributes are not validated, which allows you to pass arbitrary and ill-formed data into the API and break {kib}. Make sure any data that you send to the API is properly formed.

`references`::
  (Optional, array) Objects with `name`, `id`, and `type` properties that describe the other saved objects this object references. To refer to the other saved object, use `name` in the attributes, but never the `id`, which automatically updates during migrations or import/export.

`upsert`::
  (Optional, object) If specified, will create the document with the given upsert attributes if it doesn't exist. 

[[saved-objects-api-update-errors-codes]]
==== Response code

`200`::
    Indicates a successful call.

`404`::
    Indicates the object was not found.

`409`::
    Indicates a <<saved-objects-api-update-conflict-errors,conflict error>>.

[[saved-objects-api-update-example]]
==== Example

Update an existing {data-source} object,`my-pattern`, with a different title:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
$ curl -X PUT api/index_patterns/index-pattern/my-pattern
{
  "attributes": {
    "title": "some-other-pattern-*"
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// KIBANA

The API returns the following:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "id": "my-pattern",
  "type": "index-pattern",
  "version": 2,
  "attributes": {
    "title": "some-other-pattern-*"
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------

[[saved-objects-api-update-conflict-errors]]
==== Conflict errors

Starting in {kib} 8.0, saved objects can exist in multiple spaces. As a result, you may encounter a 409 *alias conflict* error when using
the `upsert` option. The Update API response is limited and does not include additional metadata. You can get more details about this error
by using the <<saved-objects-api-bulk-create,Bulk create API>> instead.
