docs/api/alerting/list_rule_types.asciidoc, before:

[[list-rule-types-api]]
== Get rule types API
++++
<titleabbrev>Get rule types</titleabbrev>
++++

Retrieve a list of rule types that the user is authorized to access.

[[list-rule-types-api-request]]
=== {api-request-title}

`GET <kibana host>:<port>/api/alerting/rule_types`

`GET <kibana host>:<port>/s/<space_id>/api/alerting/rule_types`

=== {api-prereq-title}

If you have `read` privileges for one or more {kib} features, the API response
contains information about the appropriate rule types. For example, there are
rule types associated with the *Management* > *Stack Rules* feature,
*Analytics* > *Discover* and *{ml-app}* features, *{observability}*, and
*Security* features. To get rule types associated with the
*{stack-monitor-app}* feature, use the `monitoring_user` built-in role.

For more details, refer to <<kibana-feature-privileges>>.

=== {api-description-title}

Each rule type includes a list of authorized consumer features. For each feature,
users are authorized to perform either `read` or `all` operations on rules of
that type. This enables you to determine which rule types you can read, create,
or modify. If you want to create or edit a rule in {kib}, some rule types are
limited to specific features and apps.

[[list-rule-types-api-params]]
=== {api-path-parms-title}

`space_id`::
(Optional, string) An identifier for the space. If `space_id` is not provided in
the URL, the default space is used.

[[list-rule-types-response]]
=== {api-response-body-title}

Each rule type has the following properties in the API response:

`action_groups`::
(array of objects) An explicit list of groups for which the rule type can
schedule actions, each with the action group's unique ID and human readable name.
Rule `actions` validation uses this configuration to ensure that groups are
valid.

`action_variables`::
(object) A list of action variables that the rule type makes available via
context and state in action parameter templates, and a short human readable
description. When you create a rule in {kib}, it uses this information to prompt
you for these variables in action parameter editors.

`authorized_consumers`::
(object) The list of the plugins IDs that have access to the rule type.

`default_action_group_id`::
(string) The default ID for the rule type group.

`does_set_recovery_context`::
(boolean) Indicates whether the rule passes context variables to its recovery
action.

`enabled_in_license`::
(boolean) Indicates whether the rule type is enabled or disabled based on the
subscription.

`id`::
(string) The unique identifier for the rule type.

`is_exportable`::
(boolean) Indicates whether the rule type is exportable in *{stack-manage-app}*
> *Saved Objects*.

`minimum_license_required`::
(string) The {subscriptions}[subscriptions] required to use the rule type.

`name`::
(string) The descriptive name of the rule type.

`producer`::
(string) An identifier for the application that produces this rule type.

`recovery_action_group`::
(object) An action group to use when an alert goes from an active state to an
inactive one. 

[[list-rule-types-api-codes]]
=== {api-response-codes-title}

`200`::
    Indicates a successful call.

[[list-rule-types-api-example]]
=== {api-examples-title}

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
GET api/alerting/rule_types
--------------------------------------------------
// KIBANA

For example, if you have `read` privileges for the {observability} {logs-app},
the API returns the following:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
[
   {
      "id":"logs.alert.document.count",
      "name":"Log threshold",
      "producer":"logs",
      "enabled_in_license":true,
      "recovery_action_group":{
         "id":"recovered",
         "name":"Recovered"
      },
      "action_groups":[
         {
            "id":"logs.threshold.fired",
            "name":"Fired"
         },
         {
            "id":"recovered",
            "name":"Recovered"
         }
      ],
      "default_action_group_id":"logs.threshold.fired",
      "minimum_license_required":"basic",
      "is_exportable":true,
      "rule_task_timeout":"5m",
      "action_variables":{
         "context":[
            {
               "name":"timestamp",
               "description":"UTC timestamp of when the alert was triggered"
            },
            {
               "name":"matchingDocuments",
               "description":"The number of log entries that matched the conditions provided"
            },
            {
               "name":"conditions",
               "description":"The conditions that log entries needed to fulfill"
            },
            ...
         ],
         "state":[],
         "params":[]
      },
      "authorized_consumers":{
         "logs":{"read":true,"all":false},
         "alerts":{"read":true,"all":false}
      },
      "does_set_recovery_context":true
   }
]
--------------------------------------------------

Commit message:

[8.6] [DOCS] Create OAS for get rule types and get alerting framework health (#148774) (#149064)
# Backport

This will backport the following commits from `main` to `8.6`:
- [[DOCS] Create OAS for get rule types and get alerting framework
health (#148774)](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/148774)

<!--- Backport version: 8.9.7 -->

### Questions ?
Please refer to the [Backport tool
documentation](https://github.com/sqren/backport)

<!--BACKPORT [{"author":{"name":"Lisa
Cawley","email":"lcawley@elastic.co"},"sourceCommit":{"committedDate":"2023-01-17T17:53:48Z","message":"[DOCS]
Create OAS for get rule types and get alerting framework health
(#148774)","sha":"fa68cb432b306ca54a68eceb5ca86f0dff326281","branchLabelMapping":{"^v8.7.0$":"main","^v(\\d+).(\\d+).\\d+$":"$1.$2"}},"sourcePullRequest":{"labels":["release_note:enhancement","Feature:Alerting","Team:ResponseOps","docs","backport:prev-minor","v8.7.0"],"number":148774,"url":"https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/148774","mergeCommit":{"message":"[DOCS]
Create OAS for get rule types and get alerting framework health
(#148774)","sha":"fa68cb432b306ca54a68eceb5ca86f0dff326281"}},"sourceBranch":"main","suggestedTargetBranches":[],"targetPullRequestStates":[{"branch":"main","label":"v8.7.0","labelRegex":"^v8.7.0$","isSourceBranch":true,"state":"MERGED","url":"https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/148774","number":148774,"mergeCommit":{"message":"[DOCS]
Create OAS for get rule types and get alerting framework health
(#148774)","sha":"fa68cb432b306ca54a68eceb5ca86f0dff326281"}}]}]
BACKPORT-->

Co-authored-by: Lisa Cawley <lcawley@elastic.co>

docs/api/alerting/list_rule_types.asciidoc, after:

[[list-rule-types-api]]
== Get rule types API
++++
<titleabbrev>Get rule types</titleabbrev>
++++

Retrieve a list of rule types that the user is authorized to access.

[NOTE]
====
For the most up-to-date API details, refer to the
{kib-repo}/tree/{branch}/x-pack/plugins/alerting/docs/openapi[open API specification]. For a preview, check out <<rule-apis>>.
====


[[list-rule-types-api-request]]
=== {api-request-title}

`GET <kibana host>:<port>/api/alerting/rule_types`

`GET <kibana host>:<port>/s/<space_id>/api/alerting/rule_types`

=== {api-prereq-title}

If you have `read` privileges for one or more {kib} features, the API response
contains information about the appropriate rule types. For example, there are
rule types associated with the *Management* > *Stack Rules* feature,
*Analytics* > *Discover* and *{ml-app}* features, *{observability}*, and
*Security* features. To get rule types associated with the
*{stack-monitor-app}* feature, use the `monitoring_user` built-in role.

For more details, refer to <<kibana-feature-privileges>>.

=== {api-description-title}

Each rule type includes a list of authorized consumer features. For each feature,
users are authorized to perform either `read` or `all` operations on rules of
that type. This enables you to determine which rule types you can read, create,
or modify. If you want to create or edit a rule in {kib}, some rule types are
limited to specific features and apps.

[[list-rule-types-api-params]]
=== {api-path-parms-title}

`space_id`::
(Optional, string) An identifier for the space. If `space_id` is not provided in
the URL, the default space is used.

[[list-rule-types-response]]
=== {api-response-body-title}

Each rule type has the following properties in the API response:

`action_groups`::
(array of objects) An explicit list of groups for which the rule type can
schedule actions, each with the action group's unique ID and human readable name.
Rule `actions` validation uses this configuration to ensure that groups are
valid.

`action_variables`::
(object) A list of action variables that the rule type makes available via
context and state in action parameter templates, and a short human readable
description. When you create a rule in {kib}, it uses this information to prompt
you for these variables in action parameter editors.

`authorized_consumers`::
(object) The list of the plugins IDs that have access to the rule type.

`default_action_group_id`::
(string) The default ID for the rule type group.

`does_set_recovery_context`::
(boolean) Indicates whether the rule passes context variables to its recovery
action.

`enabled_in_license`::
(boolean) Indicates whether the rule type is enabled or disabled based on the
subscription.

`id`::
(string) The unique identifier for the rule type.

`is_exportable`::
(boolean) Indicates whether the rule type is exportable in *{stack-manage-app}*
> *Saved Objects*.

`minimum_license_required`::
(string) The {subscriptions}[subscriptions] required to use the rule type.

`name`::
(string) The descriptive name of the rule type.

`producer`::
(string) An identifier for the application that produces this rule type.

`recovery_action_group`::
(object) An action group to use when an alert goes from an active state to an
inactive one. 

[[list-rule-types-api-codes]]
=== {api-response-codes-title}

`200`::
    Indicates a successful call.

[[list-rule-types-api-example]]
=== {api-examples-title}

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
GET api/alerting/rule_types
--------------------------------------------------
// KIBANA

For example, if you have `read` privileges for the {observability} {logs-app},
the API returns the following:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
[
   {
      "id":"logs.alert.document.count",
      "name":"Log threshold",
      "producer":"logs",
      "enabled_in_license":true,
      "recovery_action_group":{
         "id":"recovered",
         "name":"Recovered"
      },
      "action_groups":[
         {
            "id":"logs.threshold.fired",
            "name":"Fired"
         },
         {
            "id":"recovered",
            "name":"Recovered"
         }
      ],
      "default_action_group_id":"logs.threshold.fired",
      "minimum_license_required":"basic",
      "is_exportable":true,
      "rule_task_timeout":"5m",
      "action_variables":{
         "context":[
            {
               "name":"timestamp",
               "description":"UTC timestamp of when the alert was triggered"
            },
            {
               "name":"matchingDocuments",
               "description":"The number of log entries that matched the conditions provided"
            },
            {
               "name":"conditions",
               "description":"The conditions that log entries needed to fulfill"
            },
            ...
         ],
         "state":[],
         "params":[]
      },
      "authorized_consumers":{
         "logs":{"read":true,"all":false},
         "alerts":{"read":true,"all":false}
      },
      "does_set_recovery_context":true
   }
]
--------------------------------------------------
