docs/development/plugins/embeddable/public/kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public.iembeddable.md, before:

<!-- Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter. -->

[Home](./index.md) &gt; [kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public](./kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public.md) &gt; [IEmbeddable](./kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public.iembeddable.md)

## IEmbeddable interface

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
export interface IEmbeddable<I extends EmbeddableInput = EmbeddableInput, O extends EmbeddableOutput = EmbeddableOutput> 
```

## Properties

|  Property | Type | Description |
|  --- | --- | --- |
|  [enhancements](./kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public.iembeddable.enhancements.md) | <code>object</code> | Extra abilities added to Embeddable by <code>*_enhanced</code> plugins. |
|  [id](./kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public.iembeddable.id.md) | <code>string</code> | A unique identifier for this embeddable. Mainly only used by containers to map their Panel States to a child embeddable instance. |
|  [isContainer](./kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public.iembeddable.iscontainer.md) | <code>boolean</code> | Is this embeddable an instance of a Container class, can it contain nested embeddables? |
|  [parent](./kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public.iembeddable.parent.md) | <code>IContainer</code> | If this embeddable is nested inside a container, this will contain a reference to its parent. |
|  [runtimeId](./kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public.iembeddable.runtimeid.md) | <code>number</code> | Unique ID an embeddable is assigned each time it is initialized. This ID is different for different instances of the same embeddable. For example, if the same dashboard is rendered twice on the screen, all embeddable instances will have a unique <code>runtimeId</code>. |
|  [type](./kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public.iembeddable.type.md) | <code>string</code> | The type of embeddable, this is what will be used to take a serialized embeddable and find the correct factory for which to create an instance of it. |

## Methods

|  Method | Description |
|  --- | --- |
|  [destroy()](./kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public.iembeddable.destroy.md) | Cleans up subscriptions, destroy nodes mounted from calls to render. |
|  [getInput()](./kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public.iembeddable.getinput.md) | Get the input used to instantiate this embeddable. The input is a serialized representation of this embeddable instance and can be used to clone or re-instantiate it. Input state:<!-- -->- Can be updated externally - Can change multiple times for a single embeddable instance.<!-- -->Examples: title, pie slice colors, custom search columns and sort order. |
|  [getInput$()](./kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public.iembeddable.getinput_.md) | Returns an observable which will be notified when input state changes. |
|  [getInspectorAdapters()](./kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public.iembeddable.getinspectoradapters.md) | An embeddable can return inspector adapters if it wants the inspector to be available via the context menu of that panel.  Inspector adapters that will be used to open an inspector for. |
|  [getIsContainer()](./kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public.iembeddable.getiscontainer.md) | A functional representation of the isContainer variable, but helpful for typescript to know the shape if this returns true |
|  [getOutput()](./kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public.iembeddable.getoutput.md) | Output state is:<!-- -->- State that should not change once the embeddable is instantiated, or - State that is derived from the input state, or - State that only the embeddable instance itself knows about, or the factory.<!-- -->Examples: editUrl, title taken from a saved object, if your input state was first name and last name, your output state could be greeting. |
|  [getOutput$()](./kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public.iembeddable.getoutput_.md) | Returns an observable which will be notified when output state changes. |
|  [getRoot()](./kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public.iembeddable.getroot.md) | Returns the top most parent embeddable, or itself if this embeddable is not within a parent. |
|  [getTitle()](./kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public.iembeddable.gettitle.md) | Returns the title of this embeddable. |
|  [reload()](./kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public.iembeddable.reload.md) | Reload the embeddable so output and rendering is up to date. Especially relevant if the embeddable takes relative time as input (e.g. now to now-15) |
|  [render(domNode)](./kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public.iembeddable.render.md) | Renders the embeddable at the given node. |
|  [supportedTriggers()](./kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public.iembeddable.supportedtriggers.md) | List of triggers that this embeddable will execute. |
|  [updateInput(changes)](./kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public.iembeddable.updateinput.md) | Updates input state with the given changes. |

Commit message:

[Time to Visualize] Embeddable Error Handling Without ReplacePanel (#82201) (#82742)
Fixed embeddable error handling so that fatal errors are caught and displayed with an errorEmbeddable no matter when they occur.

docs/development/plugins/embeddable/public/kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public.iembeddable.md, after:

<!-- Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter. -->

[Home](./index.md) &gt; [kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public](./kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public.md) &gt; [IEmbeddable](./kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public.iembeddable.md)

## IEmbeddable interface

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
export interface IEmbeddable<I extends EmbeddableInput = EmbeddableInput, O extends EmbeddableOutput = EmbeddableOutput> 
```

## Properties

|  Property | Type | Description |
|  --- | --- | --- |
|  [enhancements](./kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public.iembeddable.enhancements.md) | <code>object</code> | Extra abilities added to Embeddable by <code>*_enhanced</code> plugins. |
|  [fatalError](./kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public.iembeddable.fatalerror.md) | <code>Error</code> | If this embeddable has encountered a fatal error, that error will be stored here |
|  [id](./kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public.iembeddable.id.md) | <code>string</code> | A unique identifier for this embeddable. Mainly only used by containers to map their Panel States to a child embeddable instance. |
|  [isContainer](./kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public.iembeddable.iscontainer.md) | <code>boolean</code> | Is this embeddable an instance of a Container class, can it contain nested embeddables? |
|  [parent](./kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public.iembeddable.parent.md) | <code>IContainer</code> | If this embeddable is nested inside a container, this will contain a reference to its parent. |
|  [runtimeId](./kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public.iembeddable.runtimeid.md) | <code>number</code> | Unique ID an embeddable is assigned each time it is initialized. This ID is different for different instances of the same embeddable. For example, if the same dashboard is rendered twice on the screen, all embeddable instances will have a unique <code>runtimeId</code>. |
|  [type](./kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public.iembeddable.type.md) | <code>string</code> | The type of embeddable, this is what will be used to take a serialized embeddable and find the correct factory for which to create an instance of it. |

## Methods

|  Method | Description |
|  --- | --- |
|  [destroy()](./kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public.iembeddable.destroy.md) | Cleans up subscriptions, destroy nodes mounted from calls to render. |
|  [getInput()](./kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public.iembeddable.getinput.md) | Get the input used to instantiate this embeddable. The input is a serialized representation of this embeddable instance and can be used to clone or re-instantiate it. Input state:<!-- -->- Can be updated externally - Can change multiple times for a single embeddable instance.<!-- -->Examples: title, pie slice colors, custom search columns and sort order. |
|  [getInput$()](./kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public.iembeddable.getinput_.md) | Returns an observable which will be notified when input state changes. |
|  [getInspectorAdapters()](./kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public.iembeddable.getinspectoradapters.md) | An embeddable can return inspector adapters if it wants the inspector to be available via the context menu of that panel.  Inspector adapters that will be used to open an inspector for. |
|  [getIsContainer()](./kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public.iembeddable.getiscontainer.md) | A functional representation of the isContainer variable, but helpful for typescript to know the shape if this returns true |
|  [getOutput()](./kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public.iembeddable.getoutput.md) | Output state is:<!-- -->- State that should not change once the embeddable is instantiated, or - State that is derived from the input state, or - State that only the embeddable instance itself knows about, or the factory.<!-- -->Examples: editUrl, title taken from a saved object, if your input state was first name and last name, your output state could be greeting. |
|  [getOutput$()](./kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public.iembeddable.getoutput_.md) | Returns an observable which will be notified when output state changes. |
|  [getRoot()](./kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public.iembeddable.getroot.md) | Returns the top most parent embeddable, or itself if this embeddable is not within a parent. |
|  [getTitle()](./kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public.iembeddable.gettitle.md) | Returns the title of this embeddable. |
|  [reload()](./kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public.iembeddable.reload.md) | Reload the embeddable so output and rendering is up to date. Especially relevant if the embeddable takes relative time as input (e.g. now to now-15) |
|  [render(domNode)](./kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public.iembeddable.render.md) | Renders the embeddable at the given node. |
|  [supportedTriggers()](./kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public.iembeddable.supportedtriggers.md) | List of triggers that this embeddable will execute. |
|  [updateInput(changes)](./kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public.iembeddable.updateinput.md) | Updates input state with the given changes. |
