src/core/server/docs/kib_core_reviewing_so_type_pr.mdx, before:

---
id: kibCoreReviewingSoPr
slug: /kibana-dev-docs/review/reviewing-so-pr
title: Reviewing SavedObject PRs
description: How to review PRs that changes savedObjects registration
date: 2022-09-30
tags: ['kibana','dev', 'contributor', 'api docs']
---

# Reviewing PRs that change Saved Object types

## How does automatic review assignment work when SO types are changed?

PRs modifying / adding / deleting any SO type registration will be flagged by the integration
test located at `src/core/server/integration_tests/saved_objects/migrations/check_registered_types.test.ts`.

This test will fail any time a change is performed on an SO type registration that could risk having an impact on
upgrades/migrations, and will force the PR's author to update the test's snapshot, which will trigger a review
from the Core team.

## What and how to review?

Reviews will be triggered when one, or more, of these scenarios occur:
- a new type was added (registered)
- a type was removed (is no longer registered)
- a new migration function was added
- a mapping change was performed
- a new validation schema was added
- an `excludeOnUpgrade` function was added or removed

Note: reviews will **not** automatically be triggered in these scenarios:
- an existing migration function is changed
- an existing validation schema is changed
- an existing `excludeOnUpgrade` function is changed

### A new type was added

We have another integration test detecting this scenario (`src/core/server/integration_tests/saved_objects/migrations/type_registrations.test.ts`)

In that scenario, we should:
- check the initial mappings of the type to spot potential issues:
  - fields being defined explicitly in the mappings but not directly used for search
  - overall amount of fields is high
  - use of `dynamic: true` (this can lead to mapping explosions)
- check if the type is registered as `hidden: true` and encourage to do so otherwise.
  - this avoids polluting the global SO HTTP APIs with another type, and instead requires plugin developers to build
    their own HTTP APIs to access this type of SO if they truly need to.

### A type was removed

The integration test mentioned in the previous section also detects those scenarios.

Here, we need to check:
- that `REMOVED_TYPES` (`src/core/packages/saved-objects/server-internal/src/constants.ts`) was properly updated
  - (but, again, the integration test will fail otherwise)
- that no other existing SO types may be referencing this type
  - can't really be automated, will likely need to ask the owning team directly

### A new migration function was added

- Review the migration function
    - owners are supposed to do it, but an additional review never hurts
    - make sure they are typing their migration function using `SavedObjectMigrationFn` and supplying arguments for the generics
      e.g. `SavedObjectMigrationFn<My810Type, My816Type>`.
- Make sure that the migration function is properly tested
  - by unit tests
  - and, ideally, by integration tests using 'real' data
- If the migration function is moving/creating/deleting/mutating fields, make sure that the type's mappings and/or schemas were updated accordingly
- Please refer to [the migration section of our testing docs](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/blob/main/dev_docs/tutorials/testing_plugins.mdx#L796) for more details

### A mapping change was performed

- Make sure a migration function was added to reflect the changes:
    - If a field was removed, ensure the migration function always removes the field from all documents
    - If a field type was changed from e.g. `text` to `long`, make sure the migration function guarantees that all documents have compatible fields
    - If a text type was changed to a keyword, make sure the text won't exceed Elasticsearch's 32k keyword length limit by e.g. specifying: `ignore_above: 256`
- If the migration function is present, refer to previous section.
- If the type is registering validation schemas, make sure a new schema was added reflecting the changes to the model.

### A new validation schema was added

- Make sure the associated mapping changes were performed, and that a migration function was added accordingly.
- Ideally schemas are validated with unit tests as well, especially for more complex ones.
- Refer to prior sections to see what to check.

Commit message:

Handling removed typed automatically (#241880)
Resolves [issue](https://github.com/elastic/kibana-team/issues/1936)

## Summary

This PR updates our CI checks for Saved Object (SO) types to
automatically handle removed types. The removed type is detected and
then handled by adding to our list of `removed_types` and also prevents
future re-registration of the same type name. This helps in reducing the
need for manual reviews in PRs that remove types.

---------

Co-authored-by: kibanamachine <42973632+kibanamachine@users.noreply.github.com>

src/core/server/docs/kib_core_reviewing_so_type_pr.mdx, after:

---
id: kibCoreReviewingSoPr
slug: /kibana-dev-docs/review/reviewing-so-pr
title: Reviewing SavedObject PRs
description: How to review PRs that changes savedObjects registration
date: 2022-09-30
tags: ['kibana','dev', 'contributor', 'api docs']
---

# Reviewing PRs that change Saved Object types

## How does automatic review assignment work when SO types are changed?

PRs modifying / adding / deleting any SO type registration will be flagged by the integration
test located at `src/core/server/integration_tests/saved_objects/migrations/check_registered_types.test.ts`.

This test will fail any time a change is performed on an SO type registration that could risk having an impact on
upgrades/migrations, and will force the PR's author to update the test's snapshot, which will trigger a review
from the Core team.

## What and how to review?

Reviews will be triggered when one, or more, of these scenarios occur:
- a new type was added (registered)
- a type was removed (is no longer registered)
- a new migration function was added
- a mapping change was performed
- a new validation schema was added
- an `excludeOnUpgrade` function was added or removed

Note: reviews will **not** automatically be triggered in these scenarios:
- an existing migration function is changed
- an existing validation schema is changed
- an existing `excludeOnUpgrade` function is changed

### A new type was added

We have another integration test detecting this scenario (`src/core/server/integration_tests/saved_objects/migrations/type_registrations.test.ts`)

In that scenario, we should:
- check the initial mappings of the type to spot potential issues:
  - fields being defined explicitly in the mappings but not directly used for search
  - overall amount of fields is high
  - use of `dynamic: true` (this can lead to mapping explosions)
- check if the type is registered as `hidden: true` and encourage to do so otherwise.
  - this avoids polluting the global SO HTTP APIs with another type, and instead requires plugin developers to build
    their own HTTP APIs to access this type of SO if they truly need to.

### A type was removed

The integration test mentioned in the previous section also detects those scenarios.

Additionally, we have an automated check (`node scripts/check_saved_objects`) that:
- Automatically detects when a previously registered SO type is no longer present
- Prevents removed type names from being reused (to avoid migration conflicts)
- Maintains a list of all removed types in `packages/kbn-check-saved-objects-cli/removed_types.json`

<DocCallOut>
For detailed instructions on how to properly remove a Saved Object type, see <DocLink id="kibDevTutorialSavedObject" section="removing-a-saved-object-type" text="Removing a Saved Object type"/>.
</DocCallOut>

When a type is removed, the check will fail with an error indicating which types were removed.

Here, we need to check:
- that `removed_types.json` was properly updated with the removed type name(s)
  - (the automated check will fail CI otherwise)
- that no other existing SO types may be referencing this removed type
  - can't really be automated, will likely need to ask the owning team directly

**Note:** Once a type name is added to `removed_types.json`, that name cannot be reused for new SO types. This prevents migration conflicts where a removed type's data could interfere with a new type using the same name.

### A new migration function was added

- Review the migration function
    - owners are supposed to do it, but an additional review never hurts
    - make sure they are typing their migration function using `SavedObjectMigrationFn` and supplying arguments for the generics
      e.g. `SavedObjectMigrationFn<My810Type, My816Type>`.
- Make sure that the migration function is properly tested
  - by unit tests
  - and, ideally, by integration tests using 'real' data
- If the migration function is moving/creating/deleting/mutating fields, make sure that the type's mappings and/or schemas were updated accordingly
- Please refer to [the migration section of our testing docs](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/blob/main/dev_docs/tutorials/testing_plugins.mdx#L796) for more details

### A mapping change was performed

- Make sure a migration function was added to reflect the changes:
    - If a field was removed, ensure the migration function always removes the field from all documents
    - If a field type was changed from e.g. `text` to `long`, make sure the migration function guarantees that all documents have compatible fields
    - If a text type was changed to a keyword, make sure the text won't exceed Elasticsearch's 32k keyword length limit by e.g. specifying: `ignore_above: 256`
- If the migration function is present, refer to previous section.
- If the type is registering validation schemas, make sure a new schema was added reflecting the changes to the model.

### A new validation schema was added

- Make sure the associated mapping changes were performed, and that a migration function was added accordingly.
- Ideally schemas are validated with unit tests as well, especially for more complex ones.
- Refer to prior sections to see what to check.
