packages/shared-ux/markdown/impl/README.mdx, before:

---
id: sharedUX/Components/Markdown
slug: /shared-ux/components/markdown
title: Markdown
description: A wrapper around EuiMarkdownEditor and EuiMarkdownFormat.
tags: ['shared-ux', 'component']
date: 2022-10-03
---

## Description

This markdown component uses the **EuiMarkdownEditor** and **EuiMarkdownFormat** managed by `@elastic/eui`. If `readOnly` is set to true, and `markdownContent` or `children` are set, then the component renders **EuiMarkdownFormat** text. Otherwise the component will render the **EuiMarkdownEditor**. The height of the component can be set, but in order the control the width of the component, you can place the `<Markdown />` component in another component.
Markdown extends all the EuiMarkdownEditorProps except for the `editorId`, `uiPlugins`, and `MarkdownFormatProps`.

## Component Properties 

| Prop Name | Type | Description |
|---|---|---|
| `readOnly` | `boolean` | Needed to differentiate where markdown is used as a presentation of error messages. This was previous the MarkdownSimple component |
| `openLinksInNewTab` | `boolean` | An optional property needed to replace the Markdown component from kibana-react |
|`markdownContent` | `string` | This prop can be set along with `readOnly` to display error.message etc text to the kibana user. This property is optional. |
| `ariaLabelContent` | `string` | An optional property to be set for the markdown component. It will be `markdown component` if not set explicitly. |
| `height` | `number` or `'full'` | The height of the markdown component can be set to a number. By default, height is set to `'full'`. To set the width, include a container for the markdown component to be within with set width. |
| `placeholder` | `string` or `undefined` | This prop can be set to a string to display the placeholder content of the markdown component. |
| `defaultValue` | `string` | The default value for the markdown editor. If not set it will default to an empty string. |

## API

| Export | Description |
|---|---|
| `Markdown` | This component provides a markdown editor or text to be supported with Markdown formatting (must have static content set for the `markdownContent`) prop and be `readOnly` |
| `MarkdownProps` | Exported by `@kbn/shared-ux-markdown-types` |

Commit message:

Fix text settings to be honored in markdown elements in Canvas

packages/shared-ux/markdown/impl/README.mdx, after:

---
id: sharedUX/Components/Markdown
slug: /shared-ux/components/markdown
title: Markdown
description: A wrapper around EuiMarkdownEditor and EuiMarkdownFormat.
tags: ['shared-ux', 'component']
date: 2022-10-03
---

## Description

This markdown component uses the **EuiMarkdownEditor** and **EuiMarkdownFormat** managed by `@elastic/eui`. If `readOnly` is set to true, and `markdownContent` or `children` are set, then the component renders **EuiMarkdownFormat** text. Otherwise the component will render the **EuiMarkdownEditor**. The height of the component can be set, but in order the control the width of the component, you can place the `<Markdown />` component in another component.
Markdown extends all the EuiMarkdownEditorProps except for the `editorId`, `uiPlugins`, and `MarkdownFormatProps`.
Like the legacy React `<Markdown>` component, `style` can be set but will only be passed to **EuiMarkdownFormat**.

## Component Properties 

| Prop Name | Type | Description |
|---|---|---|
| `readOnly` | `boolean` | Needed to differentiate where markdown is used as a presentation of error messages. This was previous the MarkdownSimple component |
| `openLinksInNewTab` | `boolean` | An optional property needed to replace the Markdown component from kibana-react |
|`markdownContent` | `string` | This prop can be set along with `readOnly` to display error.message etc text to the kibana user. This property is optional. |
| `ariaLabelContent` | `string` | An optional property to be set for the markdown component. It will be `markdown component` if not set explicitly. |
| `height` | `number` or `'full'` | The height of the markdown component can be set to a number. By default, height is set to `'full'`. To set the width, include a container for the markdown component to be within with set width. |
| `placeholder` | `string` or `undefined` | This prop can be set to a string to display the placeholder content of the markdown component. |
| `defaultValue` | `string` | The default value for the markdown editor. If not set it will default to an empty string. |

## API

| Export | Description |
|---|---|
| `Markdown` | This component provides a markdown editor or text to be supported with Markdown formatting (must have static content set for the `markdownContent`) prop and be `readOnly` |
| `MarkdownProps` | Exported by `@kbn/shared-ux-markdown-types` |
