docs/api/cases/cases-api-find-cases.asciidoc, before:

[[cases-api-find-cases]]
== Find cases API
++++
<titleabbrev>Find cases</titleabbrev>
++++

Retrieves a paginated subset of cases.

=== Request

`GET <kibana host>:<port>/api/cases/_find`

`GET <kibana host>:<port>/s/<space_id>/api/cases/_find`

=== Prerequisite

You must have `read` privileges for the *Cases* feature in the *Management*,
*{observability}*, or *Security* section of the
<<kibana-feature-privileges,{kib} feature privileges>>, depending on the
`owner` of the cases you're seeking.

=== Path parameters

`<space_id>`::
(Optional, string) An identifier for the space. If it is not specified, the
default space is used.

=== Query parameters

`defaultSearchOperator`::
(Optional, string) The default operator to use for the `simple_query_string`.
Defaults to `OR`.

`fields`::
(Optional, array of strings) The fields in the entity to return in the response.

`owner`::
(Optional, string or array of strings) A filter to limit the retrieved cases to
a specific set of applications. Valid values are: `cases`, `observability`,
and `securitySolution`. If this parameter is omitted, the response contains all
cases that the user has access to read.

`page`::
(Optional, integer) The page number to return. Defaults to `1`.

`perPage`::
(Optional, integer) The number of rules to return per page. Defaults to `20`.

`reporters`::
(Optional, string or array of strings) Filters the returned cases by the
reporter's `username`.

`search`::
(Optional, string) An {es}
{ref}/query-dsl-simple-query-string-query.html[simple_query_string] query that
filters the objects in the response.

`searchFields`::
(Optional, string or array of strings) The fields to perform the
`simple_query_string` parsed query against.

`sortField`::
(Optional, string) Determines which field is used to sort the results,
`createdAt` or `updatedAt`. Defaults to `createdAt`.
+
NOTE: Even though the JSON case object uses `created_at` and `updated_at`
fields, you must use `createdAt` and `updatedAt` fields in the URL
query.

`sortOrder`::
(Optional, string) Determines the sort order, which can be `desc` or `asc`.
Defaults to `desc`.

`status`::
(Optional, string) Filters the returned cases by state, which can be  `open`,
`in-progress`, or `closed`.

`tags`::
(Optional, string or array of strings) Filters the returned cases by tags.

=== Response code

`200`::
   Indicates a successful call.

=== Example

Retrieve the first five cases with the `phishing` tag, in ascending order by
last update time:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
GET api/cases/_find?page=1&perPage=5&sortField=updatedAt&sortOrder=asc&tags=phishing
--------------------------------------------------
// KIBANA

The API returns a JSON object listing the retrieved cases. For example:

[source,json]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "page": 1,
  "per_page": 5,
  "total": 2,
  "cases": [
    {
      "id": "abed3a70-71bd-11ea-a0b2-c51ea50a58e2",
      "version": "WzExMCwxXQ==",
      "comments": [],
      "totalComment": 0,
      "totalAlerts": 0,
      "title": "The Long Game",
      "tags": [
        "windows",
        "phishing"
      ],
      "description": "Windows 95",
      "settings": {
        "syncAlerts": true
      },
      "owner": "securitySolution",
      "closed_at": null,
      "closed_by": null,
      "created_at": "2022-03-29T13:03:23.533Z",
      "created_by": {
        "email": "rhustler@email.com",
        "full_name": "Rat Hustler",
        "username": "rhustler"
      },
      "status": "open",
      "updated_at": null,
      "updated_by": null,
      "connector": {
        "id": "131d4448-abe0-4789-939d-8ef60680b498",
        "name": "My connector",
        "type": ".jira",
        "fields": {
          "issueType": "10006",
          "priority": null,
        }
      }
      "external_service": null,
    },
    {
      "id": "a18b38a0-71b0-11ea-a0b2-c51ea50a58e2",
      "version": "Wzk4LDFd",
      "comments": [],
      "totalComment": 0,
      "totalAlerts": 0,
      "title": "This case will self-destruct in 5 seconds",
      "tags": [
        "phishing",
        "social engineering",
        "bubblegum"
      ],
      "description": "James Bond clicked on a highly suspicious email banner advertising cheap holidays for underpaid civil servants. Operation bubblegum is active. Repeat - operation bubblegum is now active!",
      "settings": {
        "syncAlerts": false
      },
      "owner": "cases",
      "closed_at": null,
      "closed_by": null,
      "created_at": "2022-03-29T11:30:02.658Z",
      "created_by": {
        "email": "ahunley@imf.usa.gov",
        "full_name": "Alan Hunley",
        "username": "ahunley"
      },
      "status": "open",
      "updated_at": "2022-03-29T12:01:50.244Z",
      "updated_by": {
        "full_name": "Classified",
        "email": "classified@hms.oo.gov.uk",
        "username": "M"
      },
      "connector": {
        "id": "131d4448-abe0-4789-939d-8ef60680b498",
        "name": "My connector",
        "type": ".resilient",
        "fields": {
          "issueTypes": [13],
          "severityCode": 6,
        }
      },
      "external_service": null,
    }
  ],
  "count_open_cases": 2,
  "count_in_progress_cases":0,
  "count_closed_cases": 0
}
--------------------------------------------------

Commit message:

[Cases] Add the ability to filter cases by date in the find and status endpoints (#128652)
Co-authored-by: Kibana Machine <42973632+kibanamachine@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/api/cases/cases-api-find-cases.asciidoc, after:

[[cases-api-find-cases]]
== Find cases API
++++
<titleabbrev>Find cases</titleabbrev>
++++

Retrieves a paginated subset of cases.

=== Request

`GET <kibana host>:<port>/api/cases/_find`

`GET <kibana host>:<port>/s/<space_id>/api/cases/_find`

=== Prerequisite

You must have `read` privileges for the *Cases* feature in the *Management*,
*{observability}*, or *Security* section of the
<<kibana-feature-privileges,{kib} feature privileges>>, depending on the
`owner` of the cases you're seeking.

=== Path parameters

`<space_id>`::
(Optional, string) An identifier for the space. If it is not specified, the
default space is used.

=== Query parameters

`defaultSearchOperator`::
(Optional, string) The default operator to use for the `simple_query_string`.
Defaults to `OR`.

`fields`::
(Optional, array of strings) The fields in the entity to return in the response.

`from`::
(Optional, string) Returns only cases that were created after a specific date. The date must be specified as a <<kuery-query,KQL>> data range or date match expression.  preview:[]

`owner`::
(Optional, string or array of strings) A filter to limit the retrieved cases to
a specific set of applications. Valid values are: `cases`, `observability`,
and `securitySolution`. If this parameter is omitted, the response contains all
cases that the user has access to read.

`page`::
(Optional, integer) The page number to return. Defaults to `1`.

`perPage`::
(Optional, integer) The number of rules to return per page. Defaults to `20`.

`reporters`::
(Optional, string or array of strings) Filters the returned cases by the
reporter's `username`.

`search`::
(Optional, string) An {es}
{ref}/query-dsl-simple-query-string-query.html[simple_query_string] query that
filters the objects in the response.

`searchFields`::
(Optional, string or array of strings) The fields to perform the
`simple_query_string` parsed query against.

`sortField`::
(Optional, string) Determines which field is used to sort the results,
`createdAt` or `updatedAt`. Defaults to `createdAt`.
+
NOTE: Even though the JSON case object uses `created_at` and `updated_at`
fields, you must use `createdAt` and `updatedAt` fields in the URL
query.

`sortOrder`::
(Optional, string) Determines the sort order, which can be `desc` or `asc`.
Defaults to `desc`.

`status`::
(Optional, string) Filters the returned cases by state, which can be  `open`,
`in-progress`, or `closed`.

`tags`::
(Optional, string or array of strings) Filters the returned cases by tags.

`to`::
(Optional, string) Returns only cases that were created before a specific date. The date must be specified as a <<kuery-query,KQL>> data range or date match expression.  preview:[]

=== Response code

`200`::
   Indicates a successful call.

=== Example

Retrieve the first five cases with the `phishing` tag, in ascending order by
last update time:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
GET api/cases/_find?page=1&perPage=5&sortField=updatedAt&sortOrder=asc&tags=phishing
--------------------------------------------------
// KIBANA

The API returns a JSON object listing the retrieved cases. For example:

[source,json]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "page": 1,
  "per_page": 5,
  "total": 2,
  "cases": [
    {
      "id": "abed3a70-71bd-11ea-a0b2-c51ea50a58e2",
      "version": "WzExMCwxXQ==",
      "comments": [],
      "totalComment": 0,
      "totalAlerts": 0,
      "title": "The Long Game",
      "tags": [
        "windows",
        "phishing"
      ],
      "description": "Windows 95",
      "settings": {
        "syncAlerts": true
      },
      "owner": "securitySolution",
      "closed_at": null,
      "closed_by": null,
      "created_at": "2022-03-29T13:03:23.533Z",
      "created_by": {
        "email": "rhustler@email.com",
        "full_name": "Rat Hustler",
        "username": "rhustler"
      },
      "status": "open",
      "updated_at": null,
      "updated_by": null,
      "connector": {
        "id": "131d4448-abe0-4789-939d-8ef60680b498",
        "name": "My connector",
        "type": ".jira",
        "fields": {
          "issueType": "10006",
          "priority": null,
        }
      }
      "external_service": null,
    },
    {
      "id": "a18b38a0-71b0-11ea-a0b2-c51ea50a58e2",
      "version": "Wzk4LDFd",
      "comments": [],
      "totalComment": 0,
      "totalAlerts": 0,
      "title": "This case will self-destruct in 5 seconds",
      "tags": [
        "phishing",
        "social engineering",
        "bubblegum"
      ],
      "description": "James Bond clicked on a highly suspicious email banner advertising cheap holidays for underpaid civil servants. Operation bubblegum is active. Repeat - operation bubblegum is now active!",
      "settings": {
        "syncAlerts": false
      },
      "owner": "cases",
      "closed_at": null,
      "closed_by": null,
      "created_at": "2022-03-29T11:30:02.658Z",
      "created_by": {
        "email": "ahunley@imf.usa.gov",
        "full_name": "Alan Hunley",
        "username": "ahunley"
      },
      "status": "open",
      "updated_at": "2022-03-29T12:01:50.244Z",
      "updated_by": {
        "full_name": "Classified",
        "email": "classified@hms.oo.gov.uk",
        "username": "M"
      },
      "connector": {
        "id": "131d4448-abe0-4789-939d-8ef60680b498",
        "name": "My connector",
        "type": ".resilient",
        "fields": {
          "issueTypes": [13],
          "severityCode": 6,
        }
      },
      "external_service": null,
    }
  ],
  "count_open_cases": 2,
  "count_in_progress_cases":0,
  "count_closed_cases": 0
}
--------------------------------------------------
