docs/api/cases/cases-api-set-configuration.asciidoc, before:

[[cases-api-set-configuration]]
== Set case configuration API
++++
<titleabbrev>Set configuration</titleabbrev>
++++

Sets external connection details, such as the closure type and
default connector for cases.

=== {api-request-title}

`POST <kibana host>:<port>/api/cases/configure`

`POST <kibana host>:<port>/s/<space_id>/api/cases/configure`

=== {api-prereq-title}

You must have `all` privileges for the *Cases* feature in the *Management*,
*{observability}*, or *Security* section of the
<<kibana-feature-privileges,{kib} feature privileges>>, depending on the
`owner` of the case configuration.

=== {api-description-title}

Connectors are used to interface with external systems. You must create a
connector before you can use it in your cases. Refer to <<add-case-connectors>>.

If you set a default connector, it is automatically selected when you create
cases in {kib}. If you use the <<cases-api-create,create case API>>, however,
you must still specify all of the connector details.

=== {api-path-parms-title}

`<space_id>`::
(Optional, string) An identifier for the space. If it is not specified, the
default space is used.

[role="child_attributes"]
=== {api-request-body-title}

`closure_type`::
(Required, string) Specifies whether a case is automatically closed when it is
pushed to external systems.
+
--
Valid values are:

* `close-by-pushing`: Cases are automatically closed when they are pushed.
* `close-by-user`: Cases are not automatically closed.
--

`connector`::
(Required, object) An object that contains the connector configuration.
+
.Properties of `connector`
[%collapsible%open]
====
`fields`::
(Required, object) An object that contains the connector fields.
+
--
TIP: The fields specified in the case configuration are not used and are not
propagated to individual cases, therefore it is recommended to set it to `null`.
--

`id`::
(Required, string) The identifier for the connector. If you do not want a
default connector, use `none`. To retrieve connector IDs, use
<<cases-api-find-connectors>>.

`name`::
(Required, string) The name of the connector. If you do not want a default
connector, use `none`. To retrieve connector names, use
<<cases-api-find-connectors>>.

`type`::
(Required, string) The type of the connector. Valid values are: `.cases-webhook`,
`.jira`, `.none`, `.resilient`,`.servicenow`, `.servicenow-sir`, and `.swimlane`.
====

`owner`::
(Required, string) The application that owns the case configuration. Valid
values are: `cases`, `observability`, or `securitySolution`. This value affects
whether you're setting case configuration details for {stack-manage-app},
{observability}, or {security-app}.

`settings`::
(Optional, object)
An object that contains the case settings.
+
.Properties of `settings`
[%collapsible%open]
====
`syncAlerts`:: 
(Required, boolean) Turns alert syncing on or off.
====

=== {api-response-codes-title}

`200`::
   Indicates a successful call.

=== {api-examples-title}

Sets the closure type and default connector for cases in **{stack-manage-app}**:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
POST api/cases/configure
{
  "owner": "cases",
  "connector": {
    "id": "5e656730-e1ca-11ec-be9b-9b1838238ee6",
    "name": "my-jira-connector",
    "type": ".jira",
    "fields": null,
  },
  "closure_type": "close-by-user"
}
--------------------------------------------------

The API returns the following response:

[source,json]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "closure_type": "close-by-user",
  "owner": "cases",
  "created_at": "2022-06-01T17:07:17.767Z",
  "created_by": {
    "username": "elastic",
    "email": null,
    "full_name": null
  },
  "updated_at": null,
  "updated_by": null,
  "connector": {
    "id": "5e656730-e1ca-11ec-be9b-9b1838238ee6",
    "name": "my-jira-connector",
    "type": ".jira",
    "fields": null
  },
  "mappings": [
    {
      "source": "title",
      "target": "summary",
      "action_type": "overwrite"
    },
    {
      "source": "description",
      "target": "description",
      "action_type": "overwrite"
    },
    {
      "source": "comments",
      "target": "comments",
      "action_type": "append"
    }
  ],
  "version": "WzIwNzMsMV0=",
  "error": null,
  "id": "4a97a440-e1cd-11ec-be9b-9b1838238ee6"
}
--------------------------------------------------

Commit message:

[DOCS] Add links from get case config and set case config

docs/api/cases/cases-api-set-configuration.asciidoc, after:

[[cases-api-set-configuration]]
== Set case configuration API
++++
<titleabbrev>Set configuration</titleabbrev>
++++

Sets external connection details, such as the closure type and
default connector for cases.

[NOTE]
====
For the most up-to-date API details, refer to the
{kib-repo}/tree/{branch}/x-pack/plugins/cases/docs/openapi[open API specification]. For a preview, check out <<case-apis>>.
====

=== {api-request-title}

`POST <kibana host>:<port>/api/cases/configure`

`POST <kibana host>:<port>/s/<space_id>/api/cases/configure`

=== {api-prereq-title}

You must have `all` privileges for the *Cases* feature in the *Management*,
*{observability}*, or *Security* section of the
<<kibana-feature-privileges,{kib} feature privileges>>, depending on the
`owner` of the case configuration.

=== {api-description-title}

Connectors are used to interface with external systems. You must create a
connector before you can use it in your cases. Refer to <<add-case-connectors>>.

If you set a default connector, it is automatically selected when you create
cases in {kib}. If you use the <<cases-api-create,create case API>>, however,
you must still specify all of the connector details.

=== {api-path-parms-title}

`<space_id>`::
(Optional, string) An identifier for the space. If it is not specified, the
default space is used.

[role="child_attributes"]
=== {api-request-body-title}

`closure_type`::
(Required, string) Specifies whether a case is automatically closed when it is
pushed to external systems.
+
--
Valid values are:

* `close-by-pushing`: Cases are automatically closed when they are pushed.
* `close-by-user`: Cases are not automatically closed.
--

`connector`::
(Required, object) An object that contains the connector configuration.
+
.Properties of `connector`
[%collapsible%open]
====
`fields`::
(Required, object) An object that contains the connector fields.
+
--
TIP: The fields specified in the case configuration are not used and are not
propagated to individual cases, therefore it is recommended to set it to `null`.
--

`id`::
(Required, string) The identifier for the connector. If you do not want a
default connector, use `none`. To retrieve connector IDs, use
<<cases-api-find-connectors>>.

`name`::
(Required, string) The name of the connector. If you do not want a default
connector, use `none`. To retrieve connector names, use
<<cases-api-find-connectors>>.

`type`::
(Required, string) The type of the connector. Valid values are: `.cases-webhook`,
`.jira`, `.none`, `.resilient`,`.servicenow`, `.servicenow-sir`, and `.swimlane`.
====

`owner`::
(Required, string) The application that owns the case configuration. Valid
values are: `cases`, `observability`, or `securitySolution`. This value affects
whether you're setting case configuration details for {stack-manage-app},
{observability}, or {security-app}.

`settings`::
(Optional, object)
An object that contains the case settings.
+
.Properties of `settings`
[%collapsible%open]
====
`syncAlerts`:: 
(Required, boolean) Turns alert syncing on or off.
====

=== {api-response-codes-title}

`200`::
   Indicates a successful call.

=== {api-examples-title}

Sets the closure type and default connector for cases in **{stack-manage-app}**:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
POST api/cases/configure
{
  "owner": "cases",
  "connector": {
    "id": "5e656730-e1ca-11ec-be9b-9b1838238ee6",
    "name": "my-jira-connector",
    "type": ".jira",
    "fields": null,
  },
  "closure_type": "close-by-user"
}
--------------------------------------------------

The API returns the following response:

[source,json]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "closure_type": "close-by-user",
  "owner": "cases",
  "created_at": "2022-06-01T17:07:17.767Z",
  "created_by": {
    "username": "elastic",
    "email": null,
    "full_name": null
  },
  "updated_at": null,
  "updated_by": null,
  "connector": {
    "id": "5e656730-e1ca-11ec-be9b-9b1838238ee6",
    "name": "my-jira-connector",
    "type": ".jira",
    "fields": null
  },
  "mappings": [
    {
      "source": "title",
      "target": "summary",
      "action_type": "overwrite"
    },
    {
      "source": "description",
      "target": "description",
      "action_type": "overwrite"
    },
    {
      "source": "comments",
      "target": "comments",
      "action_type": "append"
    }
  ],
  "version": "WzIwNzMsMV0=",
  "error": null,
  "id": "4a97a440-e1cd-11ec-be9b-9b1838238ee6"
}
--------------------------------------------------
