docs/api/cases/cases-api-update.asciidoc, before:

[[cases-api-update]]
== Update cases API
++++
<titleabbrev>Update cases</titleabbrev>
++++

Updates one or more cases.

=== {api-request-title}

`PATCH <kibana host>:<port>/api/cases`

`PATCH <kibana host>:<port>/s/<space_id>/api/cases`

=== {api-prereq-title}

You must have `all` privileges for the *Cases* feature in the *Management*,
*{observability}*, or *Security* section of the
<<kibana-feature-privileges,{kib} feature privileges>>, depending on the
`owner` of the cases you're updating.

=== {api-path-parms-title}

`<space_id>`::
(Optional, string) An identifier for the space. If it is not specified, the
default space is used.

[role="child_attributes"]
=== {api-request-body-title}

`cases`::
(Required, array of objects) Array containing one or more case objects.
+
.Properties of `cases` objects
[%collapsible%open]
====
`connector`::
(Optional, object) An object that contains the connector configuration.
+
.Properties of `connector`
[%collapsible%open]
=====
`fields`::
(Required, object) An object containing the connector fields. To remove the
connector, specify `null`. If you want to omit any individual field, specify
`null` as its value.
+
.Properties of `fields`
[%collapsible%open]
=======
For {ibm-r} connectors, specify:

`issueTypes`:::
(Required, array of numbers) The issue types of the issue.

`severityCode`:::
(Required, number) The severity code of the issue.

For {jira} connectors, specify:

`issueType`:::
(Required, string) The issue type of the issue.

`parent`:::
(Required, string) The key of the parent issue, when the issue type is
`Sub-task`.

`priority`:::
(Required, string) The priority of the issue.

For {sn-itsm} connectors, specify:

`category`:::
(Required, string) The category of the incident.

`impact`:::
(Required, string) The effect an incident had on business.

`severity`:::
(Required, string) The severity of the incident.

`subcategory`:::
(Required, string) The subcategory of the incident.

`urgency`:::
(Required, string) The extent to which the incident resolution can be delayed.

For {sn-sir} connectors, specify:

`category`:::
(Required, string) The category of the incident.

`destIp`:::
(Required, string) A comma separated list of destination IPs.

`malwareHash`:::
(Required, string) A comma separated list of malware hashes.

`malwareUrl`:::
(Required, string) A comma separated list of malware URLs.

`priority`:::
(Required, string) The priority of the incident.

`sourceIp`:::
(Required, string) A comma separated list of source IPs.

`subcategory`:::
(Required, string) The subcategory of the incident.

For {swimlane} connectors, specify:

`caseId`:::
(Required, string) The identifier for the case.

For {webhook-cm} connectors, specify `null`.
=======

`id`::
(Required, string) The identifier for the connector. To remove the connector,
use `none`. To retrieve connector IDs, use <<cases-api-find-connectors>>).

`name`::
(Required, string) The name of the connector. To remove the connector, use
`none`.

`type`::
(Required, string) The type of the connector. Valid values are: `.cases-webhook`,
`.jira`, `.none`, `.resilient`,`.servicenow`, `.servicenow-sir`, and `.swimlane`.
To remove the connector, use `.none`.

=====

`description`::
(Optional, string) The updated case description.

`id`::
(Required, string) The identifier for the case.

`settings`::
(Optional, object)
An object that contains the case settings.
+
.Properties of `settings`
[%collapsible%open]
=====
`syncAlerts`::
(Required, boolean) Turn on or off synching with alerts.
=====

`severity`::
(Optional,string) The severity of the case. Valid values are: `critical`, `high`,
`low`, and `medium`.

`status`::
(Optional, string) The case status. Valid values are: `closed`, `in-progress`,
and `open`.

`tags`::
(Optional, string array) The words and phrases that help categorize cases.

`title`::
(Optional, string) A title for the case.

`version`::
(Required, string) The current version of the case. To determine this value, use
<<cases-api-get-case>> or <<cases-api-find-cases>>.
====

=== {api-response-codes-title}

`200`::
   Indicates a successful call.

=== {api-examples-title}

Update the description, tags, and connector of case ID
`a18b38a0-71b0-11ea-a0b2-c51ea50a58e2`:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
PATCH api/cases
{
  "cases": [
    {
      "id": "a18b38a0-71b0-11ea-a0b2-c51ea50a58e2",
      "version": "WzIzLDFd",
      "connector": {
        "id": "131d4448-abe0-4789-939d-8ef60680b498",
        "name": "My connector",
        "type": ".jira",
        "fields": {
          "issueType": "10006",
          "priority": null,
          "parent": null
        }
      },
      "description": "A new description.",
      "tags": [ "tag-1", "tag-2" ],
      "settings": {
        "syncAlerts": true
      }
    }
  ]
}
--------------------------------------------------
// KIBANA

The API returns the updated case with a new `version` value. For example:

[source,json]
--------------------------------------------------
[
  {
    "id": "66b9aa00-94fa-11ea-9f74-e7e108796192",
    "version": "WzU0OCwxXQ==",
    "comments": [],
    "totalComment": 0,
    "totalAlerts": 0,
    "title": "Case title 1",
    "tags": [ "tag-1", "tag-2" ],
    "settings": {
      "syncAlerts": true
    },
    "owner": "cases",
    "description": "A new description.",
    "duration": null,
    "severity": "low",
    "closed_at": null,
    "closed_by": null,
    "created_at": "2022-05-13T09:16:17.416Z",
    "created_by": {
      "email": null,
      "full_name": null,
      "username": "elastic"
    },
    "status": "open",
    "updated_at": "2022-05-13T09:48:33.043Z",
    "updated_by": {
      "email": null,
      "full_name": null,
      "username": "elastic"
    },
    "connector": {
      "id": "131d4448-abe0-4789-939d-8ef60680b498",
      "name": "My connector",
      "type": ".jira",
      "fields": {
        "issueType": "10006",
        "parent": null,
        "priority": null,
      }
    },
    "external_service": {
      "external_title": "IS-4",
      "pushed_by": {
        "full_name": null,
        "email": null,
        "username": "elastic"
      },
      "external_url": "https://hms.atlassian.net/browse/IS-4",
      "pushed_at": "2022-05-13T09:20:40.672Z",
      "connector_id": "05da469f-1fde-4058-99a3-91e4807e2de8",
      "external_id": "10003",
      "connector_name": "Jira"
    }
  }
]
--------------------------------------------------

Commit message:

[DOCS] Add assignees to case APIs (#143610)
(cherry picked from commit 6eb02d096f3bf29b4df22f3e0e26e7dce91bb8ca)

docs/api/cases/cases-api-update.asciidoc, after:

[[cases-api-update]]
== Update cases API
++++
<titleabbrev>Update cases</titleabbrev>
++++

Updates one or more cases.

=== {api-request-title}

`PATCH <kibana host>:<port>/api/cases`

`PATCH <kibana host>:<port>/s/<space_id>/api/cases`

=== {api-prereq-title}

You must have `all` privileges for the *Cases* feature in the *Management*,
*{observability}*, or *Security* section of the
<<kibana-feature-privileges,{kib} feature privileges>>, depending on the
`owner` of the cases you're updating.

=== {api-path-parms-title}

`<space_id>`::
(Optional, string) An identifier for the space. If it is not specified, the
default space is used.

[role="child_attributes"]
=== {api-request-body-title}

`cases`::
(Required, array of objects) Array containing one or more case objects.
+
.Properties of `cases` objects
[%collapsible%open]
====

`assignees`::
(Optional, array of objects) Array containing users that are assigned to the case.
+
.Properties of assignee objects
[%collapsible%open]
=====
`uid`::
(Required, string) A unique identifier for the user profile. These identifiers
can be found by using the
{ref}/security-api-suggest-user-profile.html[suggest user profile API].
=====

`connector`::
(Optional, object) An object that contains the connector configuration.
+
.Properties of `connector`
[%collapsible%open]
=====
`fields`::
(Required, object) An object containing the connector fields. To remove the
connector, specify `null`. If you want to omit any individual field, specify
`null` as its value.
+
.Properties of `fields`
[%collapsible%open]
=======
For {ibm-r} connectors, specify:

`issueTypes`:::
(Required, array of numbers) The issue types of the issue.

`severityCode`:::
(Required, number) The severity code of the issue.

For {jira} connectors, specify:

`issueType`:::
(Required, string) The issue type of the issue.

`parent`:::
(Required, string) The key of the parent issue, when the issue type is
`Sub-task`.

`priority`:::
(Required, string) The priority of the issue.

For {sn-itsm} connectors, specify:

`category`:::
(Required, string) The category of the incident.

`impact`:::
(Required, string) The effect an incident had on business.

`severity`:::
(Required, string) The severity of the incident.

`subcategory`:::
(Required, string) The subcategory of the incident.

`urgency`:::
(Required, string) The extent to which the incident resolution can be delayed.

For {sn-sir} connectors, specify:

`category`:::
(Required, string) The category of the incident.

`destIp`:::
(Required, string) A comma separated list of destination IPs.

`malwareHash`:::
(Required, string) A comma separated list of malware hashes.

`malwareUrl`:::
(Required, string) A comma separated list of malware URLs.

`priority`:::
(Required, string) The priority of the incident.

`sourceIp`:::
(Required, string) A comma separated list of source IPs.

`subcategory`:::
(Required, string) The subcategory of the incident.

For {swimlane} connectors, specify:

`caseId`:::
(Required, string) The identifier for the case.

For {webhook-cm} connectors, specify `null`.
=======

`id`::
(Required, string) The identifier for the connector. To remove the connector,
use `none`. To retrieve connector IDs, use <<cases-api-find-connectors>>).

`name`::
(Required, string) The name of the connector. To remove the connector, use
`none`.

`type`::
(Required, string) The type of the connector. Valid values are: `.cases-webhook`,
`.jira`, `.none`, `.resilient`,`.servicenow`, `.servicenow-sir`, and `.swimlane`.
To remove the connector, use `.none`.

=====

`description`::
(Optional, string) The updated case description.

`id`::
(Required, string) The identifier for the case.

`settings`::
(Optional, object)
An object that contains the case settings.
+
.Properties of `settings`
[%collapsible%open]
=====
`syncAlerts`::
(Required, boolean) Turn on or off synching with alerts.
=====

`severity`::
(Optional,string) The severity of the case. Valid values are: `critical`, `high`,
`low`, and `medium`.

`status`::
(Optional, string) The case status. Valid values are: `closed`, `in-progress`,
and `open`.

`tags`::
(Optional, string array) The words and phrases that help categorize cases.

`title`::
(Optional, string) A title for the case.

`version`::
(Required, string) The current version of the case. To determine this value, use
<<cases-api-get-case>> or <<cases-api-find-cases>>.
====

=== {api-response-codes-title}

`200`::
   Indicates a successful call.

=== {api-examples-title}

Update the description, tags, and connector of case ID
`a18b38a0-71b0-11ea-a0b2-c51ea50a58e2`:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
PATCH api/cases
{
  "cases": [
    {
      "id": "a18b38a0-71b0-11ea-a0b2-c51ea50a58e2",
      "version": "WzIzLDFd",
      "connector": {
        "id": "131d4448-abe0-4789-939d-8ef60680b498",
        "name": "My connector",
        "type": ".jira",
        "fields": {
          "issueType": "10006",
          "priority": null,
          "parent": null
        }
      },
      "description": "A new description.",
      "tags": [ "tag-1", "tag-2" ],
      "assignees": [],
      "settings": {
        "syncAlerts": true
      }
    }
  ]
}
--------------------------------------------------
// KIBANA

The API returns the updated case with a new `version` value. For example:

[source,json]
--------------------------------------------------
[
  {
    "id": "66b9aa00-94fa-11ea-9f74-e7e108796192",
    "version": "WzU0OCwxXQ==",
    "comments": [],
    "totalComment": 0,
    "totalAlerts": 0,
    "title": "Case title 1",
    "tags": [ "tag-1", "tag-2" ],
    "settings": {
      "syncAlerts": true
    },
    "owner": "cases",
    "description": "A new description.",
    "duration": null,
    "severity": "low",
    "closed_at": null,
    "closed_by": null,
    "created_at": "2022-05-13T09:16:17.416Z",
    "created_by": {
      "email": null,
      "full_name": null,
      "username": "elastic"
    },
    "status": "open",
    "updated_at": "2022-05-13T09:48:33.043Z",
    "updated_by": {
      "email": null,
      "full_name": null,
      "username": "elastic"
    },
    "connector": {
      "id": "131d4448-abe0-4789-939d-8ef60680b498",
      "name": "My connector",
      "type": ".jira",
      "fields": {
        "issueType": "10006",
        "parent": null,
        "priority": null,
      }
    },
    "external_service": {
      "external_title": "IS-4",
      "pushed_by": {
        "full_name": null,
        "email": null,
        "username": "elastic"
      },
      "external_url": "https://hms.atlassian.net/browse/IS-4",
      "pushed_at": "2022-05-13T09:20:40.672Z",
      "connector_id": "05da469f-1fde-4058-99a3-91e4807e2de8",
      "external_id": "10003",
      "connector_name": "Jira"
    }
  }
]
--------------------------------------------------
