docs/redirects.asciidoc, before:

[role="exclude",id="redirects"]
= Deleted pages

[partintro]
--

The following pages have moved or been deleted.

--
[role="exclude",id="snapshot-repositories"]
== Snapshot and Restore
Refer to {ref}/snapshot-restore.html[Snapshot and Restore].

[role="exclude",id="snapshot-restore-tutorial"]
== Tutorial: Snapshot and Restore
Refer to {ref}/snapshot-restore.html[Snapshot and Restore].

[role="exclude",id="configuring-tls-communication"]
== Encrypt communications in {kib}
Refer to <<using-kibana-with-security,Configure security in {kib}>>.

[role="exclude",id="configuring-tls"]
== Encrypt TLS communications in {kib}
Refer to {ref}/security-basic-setup-https.html#encrypt-kibana-http[Encrypt HTTP client communications for {kib}].

[float]
[role="exclude",id="configuring-tls-browser-kib"]
=== Encrypt traffic between the browser and {kib}

Refer to {ref}/security-basic-setup-https.html#encrypt-kibana-browser[Encrypt traffic between your browser and {kib}].

[float]
[role="exclude",id="configuring-tls-kib-es"]
=== Encrypt traffic between {kib} and {es}

Refer to {ref}/security-basic-setup-https.html#encrypt-kibana-elasticsearch[Encrypt traffic between {kib} and {es}].

[role="exclude",id="monitoring-xpack-kibana"]
== Configuring monitoring in {kib}

See <<monitoring-kibana>>.


[role="exclude",id="settings-xpack-kb"]
== {xpack} Settings in {kib}

include::{asciidoc-dir}/../../shared/settings.asciidoc[]

For more {kib} configuration settings, see <<settings>>.

[role="exclude",id="uptime-security"]
== Uptime security

This page has moved. Please see the new section in the {heartbeat-ref}/securing-heartbeat.html[Uptime Monitoring Guide].

[role="exclude",id="infra-read-only-access"]
== Configure source read-only access

This page has moved. Please see {observability-guide}/configure-settings.html[configure settings].

[role="exclude",id="logs-read-only-access"]
== Configure source read-only access

This page has moved. Please see {observability-guide}/configure-data-sources.html[configure data sources].

[role="exclude",id="extend"]
== Extend your use case

This page was deleted. See <<xpack-graph>> and <<xpack-ml>>.

[role="exclude",id="xpack-dashboard-only-mode"]
== Dashboard-only mode

Using the `kibana_dashboard_only_user` role is deprecated.
Use <<kibana-feature-privileges,feature privileges>> instead.

[role="exclude",id="pdf-layout-modes"]
== PDF layout modes

This page has moved. Please see <<reporting-getting-started>>.

[role="exclude",id="xpack-reporting"]
== Reporting from Kibana

This page has moved. Please see <<reporting-getting-started>>.

[role="exclude",id="add-sample-data"]
== Add sample data

This page has moved. Please see <<get-started>>.

[role="exclude",id="tilemap"]
== Coordinate map

This page has moved. Please see <<maps>>.

[role="exclude",id="visualize-maps"]
== Maps

This page has moved. Please see <<maps>>.

[role="exclude",id="development-embedding-visualizations"]
== Embedding Visualizations

This page was deleted. See <<development-visualize-index>>.

[role="exclude",id="development-create-visualization"]
== Developing Visualizations

This page was deleted. See <<development-visualize-index>>.

[role="exclude",id="errors-alerts-with-watcher"]
== Error reports with Watcher

deprecated::[7.9.0]

Watcher error reports have been removed and replaced with Kibana's <<apm-alerts,alerting and actions>> feature.
To create error alerts with new tool, select **Alerts** - **Create threshold alert** - **Error rate**.

More information on this new feature is available in <<apm-alerts>>.

[role="exclude",id="development-security-rbac"]
== Role-based access control

This content has moved to the <<development-rbac, Security>> page.

[role="exclude",id="managing-cross-cluster-replication"]
== Cross-Cluster Replication

This content has moved. See
{ref}/ccr-getting-started.html[Set up cross-cluster replication].

[role="exclude",id="working-remote-clusters"]
== Remote clusters

This content has moved. See
{ref}/ccr-getting-started.html#ccr-getting-started-remote-cluster[Connect to a remote cluster].

[role="exclude",id="adding-policy-to-index"]
== Adding a policy to an index

This content has moved. See
{ref}/set-up-lifecycle-policy.html[Configure a lifecycle policy].

[role="exclude",id="creating-index-lifecycle-policies"]
== Creating an index lifecycle policy

This content has moved. See
{ref}/set-up-lifecycle-policy.html[Configure a lifecycle policy].

[role="exclude",id="index-lifecycle-policies"]
== Index Lifecycle Policies

This content has moved. See
{ref}/index-lifecycle-management.html[ILM: Manage the index lifecycle].

[role="exclude",id="managing-index-lifecycle-policies"]
== Managing index lifecycle policies

This content has moved. See
{ref}/index-lifecycle-management.html[ILM: Manage the index lifecycle].

[role="exclude",id="tutorial-define-index"]
== Define your index patterns

This content has moved. See
<<get-started, Quick start>>.

[role="exclude",id="managing-indices"]
== Index management

This content has moved. See {ref}/index-mgmt.html[Index management].

[role="exclude",id="field-filter"]
== Filter by field

This content has moved. See <<discover, **Discover**>>.

[role="exclude",id="document-context"]
== View a document in context

This content has moved. See <<discover, **Discover**>>.

[role="exclude",id="document-data"]
== View document data

This content has moved. See <<discover, **Discover**>>.

[role="exclude",id="viewing-field-stats"]
== View field data statistics

This content has moved. See <<discover, **Discover**>>.

[role="exclude",id="known-plugins"]
== Known plugins

This content has moved. See <<known-kibana-plugins>>.

[role="exclude",id="url-drilldown"]
== URL drilldown

[float]
[[trigger-picker]]
=== Picking a trigger for a URL drilldown

This page has moved. Refer to <<url-drilldowns>>.

[float]
[[templating]]
=== URL templating

This page has moved. Refer to <<url_templating-language>>.

[float]
[[variables]]
=== Variables

This page has moved. Refer to <<url-template-variables>>.

[float]
[[time-series-visual-builder]]
=== Time Series Visual Builder

This page was deleted. Refer to <<dashboard>>.

[float]
[[kibana-keystore-has-moved-from-the-data-folder-to-the-config-folder]]
=== Kibana Keystore has moved from the Data Folder to the Config Folder

This page has been deleted. Refer to link:https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/kibana/7.9/breaking-changes-7.9.html#user-facing-changes-79[Breaking changes in 7.9].

[float]
[[createvis]]
=== Create Visualization

This page has been deleted. Refer to <<dashboard>>.

[float]
[[data-table]]
=== Data Table

This page has been deleted. Refer to <<dashboard>>.


[float]
[[xy-chart]]
=== Line, Area, and Bar Chart

This page has been deleted. Refer to <<dashboard>>.

[float]
[[add-canvas-events]]
=== Add Canvas Elements

This page has been moved. Refer to <<canvas>>.

[float]
[[vega-lite-tutorial]]
=== Vega-Lite Tutorial

This page has been moved. Refer to <<vega-tutorial-create-a-stacked-area-chart>>.

[float]
[[heatmap-chart]]
=== Heatmap Chart

This page has been moved. Refer to <<types-of-visualizations>>.

[float]
[[interface-overview]]
=== Interface Overview

This page has been moved. Refer to <<dashboard>>.

[float]
[[time-series-visualizations]]
=== Featured Visualizations

This page has been moved. Refer to <<dashboard>>.

[float]
[[timelion-customize]]
=== Customize and format visualizations

This page has been moved. Refer to <<dashboard>>.

[float]
[[dashboard-drilldown]]
=== Dashboard Drilldowns

This page has been moved. Refer to <<dashboard-drilldowns>>.

[float]
[[development-plugin-localization]]
=== Localization for plugins

This page has been moved. PRefer to <<external-plugin-localization>>.

[role="exclude",id="visualize"]
== Visualize

This content has moved. Refer to <<dashboard, **Dashboard**>>.

[role="exclude",id="explore-dashboard-data"]
This content has moved. Refer to <<dashboard, **Dashboard**>>.

[role="exclude",id="ingest-node-pipelines"]
== Ingest Pipelines

This content has moved. Refer to {ref}/ingest.html[Ingest pipelines].


[role="exclude",id="create-panels-with-timelion"]
== Timelion

This content has moved. Refer to <<timelion>>.


[role="exclude",id="space-rbac-tutorial"]
== Tutorial: Use role-based access control to customize Kibana spaces

This content has moved. Refer to <<tutorial-secure-access-to-kibana>>.

[role="exclude",id="search"]
== Search your data

This content has moved. Refer to <<kuery-query>>.

[role="exclude",id="discover-document-context"]
== View surrounding documents

This content has moved. Refer to <<discover-view-surrounding-documents>>.

[role="exclude",id="field-formatters-string"]
== String field formatters

This content has moved. Refer to <<string-field-formatters>>.

[role="exclude",id="embedding"]
== Embed {kib} content in a web page

This content has moved. Refer to <<embedded-content-authentication>> and <<embed-code>>.

[role="exclude",id="reporting-troubleshooting-system-dependencies"]
== System dependencies

This content has moved. Refer to <<install-reporting-packages>>.

[role="exclude",id="graph-getting-started"]
== Create a graph

This content has moved. Refer to <<xpack-graph>>.

[role="exclude",id="graph-limitations"]
== Graph limitations

This content has moved. Refer to <<graph-troubleshooting>>.

[role="exclude",id="profiler-getting-started"]
== Getting start with Search Profiler

This content has moved. Refer to <<xpack-profiler>>.

[role="exclude",id="profiler-complicated"]
== Profiling a more complicated querying

This content has moved. Refer to <<xpack-profiler>>.

[role="exclude",id="profiler-render"]
== Rendering pre-captured profiler JSON

This content has moved. Refer to <<xpack-profiler>>.

[role="exclude",id="index-patterns"]
== Index patterns has been renamed to data views.

This content has moved. Refer to <<data-views>>.

[role="exclude",id="managing-index-patterns"]
== Index patterns has been renamed to data views.

This content has moved. Refer to <<managing-data-views>>.

[role="exclude",id="xpack-kibana-role-management"]
== Kibana role management.

This content has moved. Refer to <<kibana-role-management>>.

[role="exclude",id="upgrade-migrations"]
== Upgrade migrations

This content has moved. Refer to <<saved-object-migrations>>.

[role="exclude",id="upgrade-standard"]
== Standard Upgrade

This content has moved. Refer to {stack-ref}/upgrading-kibana.html[Upgrade Kibana].

[role="exclude",id="upgrade-assistant"]
== Upgrade Assistant

This content has moved. Refer to {kibana-ref-all}/7.17/upgrade-assistant.html[Upgrade Assistant].

[role="exclude",id="brew"]
== Install {kib} on macOS with Homebrew

This page has been deleted. Refer to <<install>>.

Commit message:

[DOCS] Updates Discover docs to show Document Explorer (#129549)
* [DOCS] Updates Discover docs to show Document Explorer

* [DOCS] Updates screenshots and text for DE

* [DOCS] Removed view documents and combined with document explorer

* Apply suggestions from code review

* [DOCS] Updates search for relevance

* [DOCS] Incorporates review comments

* Update docs/discover/document-explorer.asciidoc

Co-authored-by: Kaarina Tungseth <kaarina.tungseth@elastic.co>

* Update docs/discover/document-explorer.asciidoc

Co-authored-by: Kaarina Tungseth <kaarina.tungseth@elastic.co>

* Update docs/user/discover.asciidoc

Co-authored-by: Kaarina Tungseth <kaarina.tungseth@elastic.co>

* Update docs/user/discover.asciidoc

Co-authored-by: Kaarina Tungseth <kaarina.tungseth@elastic.co>

* Update docs/discover/document-explorer.asciidoc

Co-authored-by: Kaarina Tungseth <kaarina.tungseth@elastic.co>

* Update docs/discover/document-explorer.asciidoc

Co-authored-by: Kaarina Tungseth <kaarina.tungseth@elastic.co>

* [DOCS] Incorporates review feedback

Co-authored-by: Kibana Machine <42973632+kibanamachine@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Kaarina Tungseth <kaarina.tungseth@elastic.co>
(cherry picked from commit cf844371e4ceeae5471b8d26d073f27776545433)

docs/redirects.asciidoc, after:

[role="exclude",id="redirects"]
= Deleted pages

[partintro]
--

The following pages have moved or been deleted.

--
[role="exclude",id="snapshot-repositories"]
== Snapshot and Restore
Refer to {ref}/snapshot-restore.html[Snapshot and Restore].

[role="exclude",id="snapshot-restore-tutorial"]
== Tutorial: Snapshot and Restore
Refer to {ref}/snapshot-restore.html[Snapshot and Restore].

[role="exclude",id="configuring-tls-communication"]
== Encrypt communications in {kib}
Refer to <<using-kibana-with-security,Configure security in {kib}>>.

[role="exclude",id="configuring-tls"]
== Encrypt TLS communications in {kib}
Refer to {ref}/security-basic-setup-https.html#encrypt-kibana-http[Encrypt HTTP client communications for {kib}].

[float]
[role="exclude",id="configuring-tls-browser-kib"]
=== Encrypt traffic between the browser and {kib}

Refer to {ref}/security-basic-setup-https.html#encrypt-kibana-browser[Encrypt traffic between your browser and {kib}].

[float]
[role="exclude",id="configuring-tls-kib-es"]
=== Encrypt traffic between {kib} and {es}

Refer to {ref}/security-basic-setup-https.html#encrypt-kibana-elasticsearch[Encrypt traffic between {kib} and {es}].

[role="exclude",id="monitoring-xpack-kibana"]
== Configuring monitoring in {kib}

See <<monitoring-kibana>>.


[role="exclude",id="settings-xpack-kb"]
== {xpack} Settings in {kib}

include::{asciidoc-dir}/../../shared/settings.asciidoc[]

For more {kib} configuration settings, see <<settings>>.

[role="exclude",id="uptime-security"]
== Uptime security

This page has moved. Please see the new section in the {heartbeat-ref}/securing-heartbeat.html[Uptime Monitoring Guide].

[role="exclude",id="infra-read-only-access"]
== Configure source read-only access

This page has moved. Please see {observability-guide}/configure-settings.html[configure settings].

[role="exclude",id="logs-read-only-access"]
== Configure source read-only access

This page has moved. Please see {observability-guide}/configure-data-sources.html[configure data sources].

[role="exclude",id="extend"]
== Extend your use case

This page was deleted. See <<xpack-graph>> and <<xpack-ml>>.

[role="exclude",id="xpack-dashboard-only-mode"]
== Dashboard-only mode

Using the `kibana_dashboard_only_user` role is deprecated.
Use <<kibana-feature-privileges,feature privileges>> instead.

[role="exclude",id="pdf-layout-modes"]
== PDF layout modes

This page has moved. Please see <<reporting-getting-started>>.

[role="exclude",id="xpack-reporting"]
== Reporting from Kibana

This page has moved. Please see <<reporting-getting-started>>.

[role="exclude",id="add-sample-data"]
== Add sample data

This page has moved. Please see <<get-started>>.

[role="exclude",id="tilemap"]
== Coordinate map

This page has moved. Please see <<maps>>.

[role="exclude",id="visualize-maps"]
== Maps

This page has moved. Please see <<maps>>.

[role="exclude",id="development-embedding-visualizations"]
== Embedding Visualizations

This page was deleted. See <<development-visualize-index>>.

[role="exclude",id="development-create-visualization"]
== Developing Visualizations

This page was deleted. See <<development-visualize-index>>.

[role="exclude",id="errors-alerts-with-watcher"]
== Error reports with Watcher

deprecated::[7.9.0]

Watcher error reports have been removed and replaced with Kibana's <<apm-alerts,alerting and actions>> feature.
To create error alerts with new tool, select **Alerts** - **Create threshold alert** - **Error rate**.

More information on this new feature is available in <<apm-alerts>>.

[role="exclude",id="development-security-rbac"]
== Role-based access control

This content has moved to the <<development-rbac, Security>> page.

[role="exclude",id="managing-cross-cluster-replication"]
== Cross-Cluster Replication

This content has moved. See
{ref}/ccr-getting-started.html[Set up cross-cluster replication].

[role="exclude",id="working-remote-clusters"]
== Remote clusters

This content has moved. See
{ref}/ccr-getting-started.html#ccr-getting-started-remote-cluster[Connect to a remote cluster].

[role="exclude",id="adding-policy-to-index"]
== Adding a policy to an index

This content has moved. See
{ref}/set-up-lifecycle-policy.html[Configure a lifecycle policy].

[role="exclude",id="creating-index-lifecycle-policies"]
== Creating an index lifecycle policy

This content has moved. See
{ref}/set-up-lifecycle-policy.html[Configure a lifecycle policy].

[role="exclude",id="index-lifecycle-policies"]
== Index Lifecycle Policies

This content has moved. See
{ref}/index-lifecycle-management.html[ILM: Manage the index lifecycle].

[role="exclude",id="managing-index-lifecycle-policies"]
== Managing index lifecycle policies

This content has moved. See
{ref}/index-lifecycle-management.html[ILM: Manage the index lifecycle].

[role="exclude",id="tutorial-define-index"]
== Define your index patterns

This content has moved. See
<<get-started, Quick start>>.

[role="exclude",id="managing-indices"]
== Index management

This content has moved. See {ref}/index-mgmt.html[Index management].

[role="exclude",id="field-filter"]
== Filter by field

This content has moved. See <<discover, **Discover**>>.

[role="exclude",id="document-context"]
== View a document in context

This content has moved. See <<discover, **Discover**>>.

[role="exclude",id="document-data"]
== View document data

This content has moved. See <<discover, **Discover**>>.

[role="exclude",id="viewing-field-stats"]
== View field data statistics

This content has moved. See <<discover, **Discover**>>.

[role="exclude",id="known-plugins"]
== Known plugins

This content has moved. See <<known-kibana-plugins>>.

[role="exclude",id="url-drilldown"]
== URL drilldown

[float]
[[trigger-picker]]
=== Picking a trigger for a URL drilldown

This page has moved. Refer to <<url-drilldowns>>.

[float]
[[templating]]
=== URL templating

This page has moved. Refer to <<url_templating-language>>.

[float]
[[variables]]
=== Variables

This page has moved. Refer to <<url-template-variables>>.

[float]
[[time-series-visual-builder]]
=== Time Series Visual Builder

This page was deleted. Refer to <<dashboard>>.

[float]
[[kibana-keystore-has-moved-from-the-data-folder-to-the-config-folder]]
=== Kibana Keystore has moved from the Data Folder to the Config Folder

This page has been deleted. Refer to link:https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/kibana/7.9/breaking-changes-7.9.html#user-facing-changes-79[Breaking changes in 7.9].

[float]
[[createvis]]
=== Create Visualization

This page has been deleted. Refer to <<dashboard>>.

[float]
[[data-table]]
=== Data Table

This page has been deleted. Refer to <<dashboard>>.


[float]
[[xy-chart]]
=== Line, Area, and Bar Chart

This page has been deleted. Refer to <<dashboard>>.

[float]
[[add-canvas-events]]
=== Add Canvas Elements

This page has been moved. Refer to <<canvas>>.

[float]
[[vega-lite-tutorial]]
=== Vega-Lite Tutorial

This page has been moved. Refer to <<vega-tutorial-create-a-stacked-area-chart>>.

[float]
[[heatmap-chart]]
=== Heatmap Chart

This page has been moved. Refer to <<types-of-visualizations>>.

[float]
[[interface-overview]]
=== Interface Overview

This page has been moved. Refer to <<dashboard>>.

[float]
[[time-series-visualizations]]
=== Featured Visualizations

This page has been moved. Refer to <<dashboard>>.

[float]
[[timelion-customize]]
=== Customize and format visualizations

This page has been moved. Refer to <<dashboard>>.

[float]
[[dashboard-drilldown]]
=== Dashboard Drilldowns

This page has been moved. Refer to <<dashboard-drilldowns>>.

[float]
[[development-plugin-localization]]
=== Localization for plugins

This page has been moved. PRefer to <<external-plugin-localization>>.

[role="exclude",id="visualize"]
== Visualize

This content has moved. Refer to <<dashboard, **Dashboard**>>.

[role="exclude",id="explore-dashboard-data"]
This content has moved. Refer to <<dashboard, **Dashboard**>>.

[role="exclude",id="ingest-node-pipelines"]
== Ingest Pipelines

This content has moved. Refer to {ref}/ingest.html[Ingest pipelines].


[role="exclude",id="create-panels-with-timelion"]
== Timelion

This content has moved. Refer to <<timelion>>.


[role="exclude",id="space-rbac-tutorial"]
== Tutorial: Use role-based access control to customize Kibana spaces

This content has moved. Refer to <<tutorial-secure-access-to-kibana>>.

[role="exclude",id="search"]
== Search your data

This content has moved. Refer to <<kuery-query>>.

[role="exclude",id="discover-document-context"]
== View surrounding documents

This content has moved. Refer to <<document-explorer>>.

[role="exclude",id="field-formatters-string"]
== String field formatters

This content has moved. Refer to <<string-field-formatters>>.

[role="exclude",id="embedding"]
== Embed {kib} content in a web page

This content has moved. Refer to <<embedded-content-authentication>> and <<embed-code>>.

[role="exclude",id="reporting-troubleshooting-system-dependencies"]
== System dependencies

This content has moved. Refer to <<install-reporting-packages>>.

[role="exclude",id="graph-getting-started"]
== Create a graph

This content has moved. Refer to <<xpack-graph>>.

[role="exclude",id="graph-limitations"]
== Graph limitations

This content has moved. Refer to <<graph-troubleshooting>>.

[role="exclude",id="profiler-getting-started"]
== Getting start with Search Profiler

This content has moved. Refer to <<xpack-profiler>>.

[role="exclude",id="profiler-complicated"]
== Profiling a more complicated querying

This content has moved. Refer to <<xpack-profiler>>.

[role="exclude",id="profiler-render"]
== Rendering pre-captured profiler JSON

This content has moved. Refer to <<xpack-profiler>>.

[role="exclude",id="index-patterns"]
== Index patterns has been renamed to data views.

This content has moved. Refer to <<data-views>>.

[role="exclude",id="managing-index-patterns"]
== Index patterns has been renamed to data views.

This content has moved. Refer to <<managing-data-views>>.

[role="exclude",id="xpack-kibana-role-management"]
== Kibana role management.

This content has moved. Refer to <<kibana-role-management>>.

[role="exclude",id="upgrade-migrations"]
== Upgrade migrations

This content has moved. Refer to <<saved-object-migrations>>.

[role="exclude",id="upgrade-standard"]
== Standard Upgrade

This content has moved. Refer to {stack-ref}/upgrading-kibana.html[Upgrade Kibana].

[role="exclude",id="upgrade-assistant"]
== Upgrade Assistant

This content has moved. Refer to {kibana-ref-all}/7.17/upgrade-assistant.html[Upgrade Assistant].

[role="exclude",id="brew"]
== Install {kib} on macOS with Homebrew

This page has been deleted. Refer to <<install>>.

[role="exclude",id="discover-view-document"]
== View a document

This page has been deleted. Refer to <<document-explorer>>.
