docs/visualize.asciidoc, before:

[[visualize]]
= Visualize

[partintro]
--
_Visualize_ enables you to create visualizations of the data in your
Elasticsearch indices. You can then build <<dashboard, dashboards>> that
display related visualizations.

Kibana visualizations are based on Elasticsearch queries. By using a
series of Elasticsearch {es-ref}search-aggregations.html[aggregations]
to extract and process your data, you can create charts that show
you the trends, spikes, and dips you need to know about.

You can create visualizations from a search saved from <<discover, Discover>>
or start with a new search query.
--

[[createvis]]
== Creating a Visualization

To create a visualization:

. Click on *Visualize* in the side navigation.
. Choose the visualization type:
+
[horizontal]
<<area-chart,Area chart>>:: Visualize the total contribution of several
different series.
<<data-table,Data table>>:: Display the raw data of a composed aggregation.
<<line-chart,Line chart>>:: Compare different series.
<<markdown-widget,Markdown widget>>:: Display free-form information or
instructions.
<<metric-chart,Metric>>:: Display a single number.
<<pie-chart,Pie chart>>:: Display each source's contribution to a total.
<<tilemap,Tile map>>:: Associate the results of an aggregation with geographic
locations.
Timeseries:: Compute and combine data from multiple time series
data sets.
<<vertical-bar-chart,Vertical bar chart>>:: Graph values in a bar chart.

. Specify a search query to retrieve the data for your visualization:
** To enter new search criteria, select the index pattern for the indices that
contain the data you want to visualize. This opens the visualization builder
with a wildcard query that matches all of the documents in the selected
indices.
** To build a visualization from a saved search, click the name of the saved
search you want to use. This opens the visualization builder and loads the
selected query.
+
NOTE: When you build a visualization from a saved search, any subsequent
modifications to the saved search are automatically reflected in the
visualization. To disable automatic updates, you can disconnect a visualization
from the saved search.

. In the visualization builder, choose the metric aggregation for the
visualization's Y axis:
+
* {es-ref}search-aggregations-metrics-valuecount-aggregation.html[count]
* {es-ref}search-aggregations-metrics-avg-aggregation.html[average]
* {es-ref}search-aggregations-metrics-sum-aggregation.html[sum]
* {es-ref}search-aggregations-metrics-min-aggregation.html[min]
* {es-ref}search-aggregations-metrics-max-aggregation.html[max]
* {es-ref}search-aggregations-metrics-cardinality-aggregation.html[unique count]
* {es-ref}search-aggregations-metrics-percentile-aggregation.html[median] (50th percentile)
* {es-ref}search-aggregations-metrics-percentile-aggregation.html[percentiles]
* {es-ref}search-aggregations-metrics-percentile-rank-aggregation.html[percentile ranks]

. For the visualizations X axis, select a bucket aggregation:
+
* {es-ref}search-aggregations-bucket-datehistogram-aggregation.html[date histogram]
* {es-ref}search-aggregations-bucket-range-aggregation.html[range]
* {es-ref}search-aggregations-bucket-terms-aggregation.html[terms]
* {es-ref}search-aggregations-bucket-filters-aggregation.html[filters]
* {es-ref}search-aggregations-bucket-significantterms-aggregation.html[significant terms]

For example, if you're indexing Apache server logs, you could build bar chart
that shows the distribution of incoming requests by geographic location by
specifying a terms aggregation on the `geo.src` field:

image::images/bar-terms-agg.jpg[]

The y-axis shows the number of requests received from each country, and the
countries are displayed across the x-axis.

Bar, line, or area chart visualizations use _metrics_ for the y-axis and
_buckets_ for the x-axis. Buckets are analogous to SQL `GROUP BY`
statements. Pie charts, use the metric for the slice size and the bucket
for the number of slices.

You can futher break down the data by specifying sub aggregations. The first
aggregation determines the data set for any subsequent aggregations. Sub
aggregations are applied in order--you can drag the aggregations to change the
order in which they're applied.

For example, you could add a terms sub aggregation on the `geo.dest` field to
the Country of Origin bar chart to see the locations those requests were
targeting.

image::images/bar-terms-subagg.jpg[]

For more information about working with sub aggregations, see
https://www.elastic.co/blog/kibana-aggregation-execution-order-and-you[Kibana,
Aggregation Execution Order, and You].

include::visualize/area.asciidoc[]

include::visualize/datatable.asciidoc[]

include::visualize/line.asciidoc[]

include::visualize/markdown.asciidoc[]

include::visualize/metric.asciidoc[]

include::visualize/pie.asciidoc[]

include::visualize/tilemap.asciidoc[]

include::visualize/vertbar.asciidoc[]

include::visualize/tagcloud.asciidoc[]

Commit message:

improve tag cloud doc (#9359)
Backports PR #9356

**Commit 1:**
improve tag cloud doc

* Original sha: 011516d14fb9b52d271f3486b148381442c59234
* Authored by Thomas Neirynck <thomas@elastic.co> on 2016-12-02T23:09:35Z

docs/visualize.asciidoc, after:

[[visualize]]
= Visualize

[partintro]
--
_Visualize_ enables you to create visualizations of the data in your
Elasticsearch indices. You can then build <<dashboard, dashboards>> that
display related visualizations.

Kibana visualizations are based on Elasticsearch queries. By using a
series of Elasticsearch {es-ref}search-aggregations.html[aggregations]
to extract and process your data, you can create charts that show
you the trends, spikes, and dips you need to know about.

You can create visualizations from a search saved from <<discover, Discover>>
or start with a new search query.
--

[[createvis]]
== Creating a Visualization

To create a visualization:

. Click on *Visualize* in the side navigation.
. Choose the visualization type:
+
[horizontal]
<<area-chart,Area chart>>:: Visualize the total contribution of several
different series.
<<data-table,Data table>>:: Display the raw data of a composed aggregation.
<<line-chart,Line chart>>:: Compare different series.
<<markdown-widget,Markdown widget>>:: Display free-form information or
instructions.
<<metric-chart,Metric>>:: Display a single number.
<<pie-chart,Pie chart>>:: Display each source's contribution to a total.
<<tagcloud-chart,Tag cloud>>:: Display words as a cloud in which the size of the word correspond to its importance
<<tilemap,Tile map>>:: Associate the results of an aggregation with geographic
locations.
Timeseries:: Compute and combine data from multiple time series
data sets.
<<vertical-bar-chart,Vertical bar chart>>:: Graph values in a bar chart.

. Specify a search query to retrieve the data for your visualization:
** To enter new search criteria, select the index pattern for the indices that
contain the data you want to visualize. This opens the visualization builder
with a wildcard query that matches all of the documents in the selected
indices.
** To build a visualization from a saved search, click the name of the saved
search you want to use. This opens the visualization builder and loads the
selected query.
+
NOTE: When you build a visualization from a saved search, any subsequent
modifications to the saved search are automatically reflected in the
visualization. To disable automatic updates, you can disconnect a visualization
from the saved search.

. In the visualization builder, choose the metric aggregation for the
visualization's Y axis:
+
* {es-ref}search-aggregations-metrics-valuecount-aggregation.html[count]
* {es-ref}search-aggregations-metrics-avg-aggregation.html[average]
* {es-ref}search-aggregations-metrics-sum-aggregation.html[sum]
* {es-ref}search-aggregations-metrics-min-aggregation.html[min]
* {es-ref}search-aggregations-metrics-max-aggregation.html[max]
* {es-ref}search-aggregations-metrics-cardinality-aggregation.html[unique count]
* {es-ref}search-aggregations-metrics-percentile-aggregation.html[median] (50th percentile)
* {es-ref}search-aggregations-metrics-percentile-aggregation.html[percentiles]
* {es-ref}search-aggregations-metrics-percentile-rank-aggregation.html[percentile ranks]

. For the visualizations X axis, select a bucket aggregation:
+
* {es-ref}search-aggregations-bucket-datehistogram-aggregation.html[date histogram]
* {es-ref}search-aggregations-bucket-range-aggregation.html[range]
* {es-ref}search-aggregations-bucket-terms-aggregation.html[terms]
* {es-ref}search-aggregations-bucket-filters-aggregation.html[filters]
* {es-ref}search-aggregations-bucket-significantterms-aggregation.html[significant terms]

For example, if you're indexing Apache server logs, you could build bar chart
that shows the distribution of incoming requests by geographic location by
specifying a terms aggregation on the `geo.src` field:

image::images/bar-terms-agg.jpg[]

The y-axis shows the number of requests received from each country, and the
countries are displayed across the x-axis.

Bar, line, or area chart visualizations use _metrics_ for the y-axis and
_buckets_ for the x-axis. Buckets are analogous to SQL `GROUP BY`
statements. Pie charts, use the metric for the slice size and the bucket
for the number of slices.

You can futher break down the data by specifying sub aggregations. The first
aggregation determines the data set for any subsequent aggregations. Sub
aggregations are applied in order--you can drag the aggregations to change the
order in which they're applied.

For example, you could add a terms sub aggregation on the `geo.dest` field to
the Country of Origin bar chart to see the locations those requests were
targeting.

image::images/bar-terms-subagg.jpg[]

For more information about working with sub aggregations, see
https://www.elastic.co/blog/kibana-aggregation-execution-order-and-you[Kibana,
Aggregation Execution Order, and You].

include::visualize/area.asciidoc[]

include::visualize/datatable.asciidoc[]

include::visualize/line.asciidoc[]

include::visualize/markdown.asciidoc[]

include::visualize/metric.asciidoc[]

include::visualize/pie.asciidoc[]

include::visualize/tilemap.asciidoc[]

include::visualize/vertbar.asciidoc[]

include::visualize/tagcloud.asciidoc[]
