docs/developer/architecture/index.asciidoc, before:

[[kibana-architecture]]
== Architecture

[IMPORTANT]
==============================================
{kib} developer services and apis are in a state of constant development. We cannot provide backwards compatibility at this time due to the high rate of change.
==============================================

Our developer services are changing all the time. One of the best ways to discover and learn about them is to read the available
READMEs from all the plugins inside our {kib-repo}tree/{branch}/src/plugins[open source plugins folder] and our
{kib-repo}/tree/{branch}/x-pack/plugins[commercial plugins folder].

A few services also automatically generate api documentation which can be browsed inside the {kib-repo}tree/{branch}/docs/development[docs/development section of our repo]

A few notable services are called out below.

* <<development-security>>
* <<add-data-tutorials>>
* <<development-visualize-index>>

include::add-data-tutorials.asciidoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::development-visualize-index.asciidoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::security/index.asciidoc[leveloffset=+1]

Commit message:

[docs] Convert migration guide to asciidoc (#82600) (#84181)
* Initial conversion to asciidoc

* Update and split migration guide

* Convert MIGRATION_EXAMPLES to asciidoc

* build with --focus flag

* convert migration guide to asciidoc

* cleanup migration_examples

* fix wrong Heading size

* update links in docs

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Rudolf Meijering <skaapgif@gmail.com>

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Rudolf Meijering <skaapgif@gmail.com>

* add tooling section

* explain purpose of each lifecycle method

* cleanup docs

* cleanup p2

* fix wrong link

* resturcture core docs

* fix wrong link

* update missing links

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: gchaps <33642766+gchaps@users.noreply.github.com>

* address comments

* add a commenta about plugin-helpers preconfigured

* improve density of tables

* fix lik

* remove links to the migration guide

* address comments

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: gchaps <33642766+gchaps@users.noreply.github.com>

* address @gchaps comments

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: gchaps <33642766+gchaps@users.noreply.github.com>

* change format of ES client change list

Co-authored-by: Josh Dover <me@joshdover.com>
Co-authored-by: Rudolf Meijering <skaapgif@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: gchaps <33642766+gchaps@users.noreply.github.com>
# Conflicts:
#	docs/developer/architecture/core/saved-objects-service.asciidoc
#	docs/developer/architecture/index.asciidoc
#	src/core/MIGRATION.md
#	src/core/README.md

docs/developer/architecture/index.asciidoc, after:

[[kibana-architecture]]
== Architecture

[IMPORTANT]
==============================================
The {kib} Plugin APIs are in a state of
constant development. We cannot provide backwards compatibility at this time due
to the high rate of change.
==============================================

To begin plugin development, we recommend reading our overview of how plugins work:

* <<kibana-platform-plugin-api>>

Our developer services are changing all the time. One of the best ways to discover and learn about them is to read the available
READMEs from all the plugins inside our {kib-repo}tree/{branch}/src/plugins[open source plugins folder] and our
{kib-repo}/tree/{branch}/x-pack/plugins[commercial plugins folder].

A few services also automatically generate api documentation which can be browsed inside the {kib-repo}tree/{branch}/docs/development[docs/development section of our repo]

A few notable services are called out below.

* <<kibana-platform-api>>
* <<development-security>>
* <<add-data-tutorials>>
* <<development-visualize-index>>

include::kibana-platform-plugin-api.asciidoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::core/index.asciidoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::security/index.asciidoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::add-data-tutorials.asciidoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::development-visualize-index.asciidoc[leveloffset=+1]
