docs/user/security/audit-logging.asciidoc, before:

[role="xpack"]
[[xpack-security-audit-logging]]
=== Audit logs

Audit logging is a https://www.elastic.co/subscriptions[subscription feature] that you can enable to keep track of security-related events,
such as authorization success and failures. Logging these events enables you to monitor {kib} for suspicious activity and provides evidence
in the event of an attack.

Use the {kib} audit logs in conjunction with {ref}/enable-audit-logging.html[{es} audit logging] to get a
holistic view of all security related events. {kib} defers to the {es} security
model for authentication, data index authorization, and features that are driven
by cluster-wide privileges. For more information on enabling audit logging in
{es}, refer to {ref}/auditing.html[Auditing security events].

[NOTE]
============================================================================
Audit logs are **disabled** by default. To enable this functionality, you must
set `xpack.security.audit.enabled` to `true` in `kibana.yml`, and optionally configure
an <<audit-logging-settings, appender>> to write the audit log to a location of your choosing.
============================================================================

[[xpack-security-ecs-audit-logging]]
==== Audit events

Refer to the table of events that can be logged for auditing purposes. 

Each event is broken down into <<field-event-category, category>>, <<field-event-type, type>>, <<field-event-action, action>> and
<<field-event-outcome, outcome>> fields to make it easy to filter, query and aggregate the resulting logs. The <<field-trace-id, trace.id>>
field can be used to correlate multiple events that originate from the same request.

Refer to <<xpack-security-ecs-audit-schema>> for a table of fields that get logged with audit event. 

[NOTE]
============================================================================
To ensure that a record of every operation is persisted even in case of an
unexpected error, asynchronous write operations are logged immediately after all
authorization checks have passed, but before the response from {es} is received.
Refer to the corresponding {es} logs for potential write errors.
============================================================================

[cols="3*<"]
|======
3+a|
===== Category: authentication

| *Action*
| *Outcome*
| *Description*

.2+| `user_login`
| `success` | User has logged in successfully.
| `failure` | Failed login attempt (e.g. due to invalid credentials).

| `user_logout`
| `unknown` | User is logging out.

| `session_cleanup`
| `unknown` | Removing invalid or expired session.

| `access_agreement_acknowledged`
| n/a | User has acknowledged the access agreement.

3+a|
===== Category: database
====== Type: creation

| *Action*
| *Outcome*
| *Description*

.2+| `saved_object_create`
| `unknown` | User is creating a saved object.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to create a saved object.

.2+| `saved_object_open_point_in_time`
| `unknown` | User is creating a Point In Time to use when querying saved objects.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to create a Point In Time for the provided saved object types.

.2+| `connector_create`
| `unknown` | User is creating a connector.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to create a connector.

.2+| `rule_create`
| `unknown` | User is creating a rule.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to create a rule.

.2+| `space_create`
| `unknown` | User is creating a space.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to create a space.

3+a|
====== Type: change

| *Action*
| *Outcome*
| *Description*

.2+| `saved_object_update`
| `unknown` | User is updating a saved object.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to update a saved object.

.2+| `saved_object_add_to_spaces`
| `unknown` | User is adding a saved object to other spaces.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to add a saved object to other spaces.

.2+| `saved_object_delete_from_spaces`
| `unknown` | User is removing a saved object from other spaces.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to remove a saved object from other spaces.

.2+| `saved_object_remove_references`
| `unknown` | User is removing references to a saved object.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to remove references to a saved object.

.2+| `connector_update`
| `unknown` | User is updating a connector.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to update a connector.

.2+| `rule_update`
| `unknown` | User is updating a rule.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to update a rule.

.2+| `rule_update_api_key`
| `unknown` | User is updating the API key of a rule.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to update the API key of a rule.

.2+| `rule_enable`
| `unknown` | User is enabling a rule.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to enable a rule.

.2+| `rule_disable`
| `unknown` | User is disabling a rule.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to disable a rule.

.2+| `rule_mute`
| `unknown` | User is muting a rule.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to mute a rule.

.2+| `rule_unmute`
| `unknown` | User is unmuting a rule.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to unmute a rule.

.2+| `rule_alert_mute`
| `unknown` | User is muting an alert.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to mute an alert.

.2+| `rule_alert_unmute`
| `unknown` | User is unmuting an alert.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to unmute an alert.

.2+| `space_update`
| `unknown` | User is updating a space.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to update a space.

.2+| `alert_update`
| `unknown` | User is updating an alert.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to update an alert.

3+a|
====== Type: deletion

| *Action*
| *Outcome*
| *Description*

.2+| `saved_object_delete`
| `unknown` | User is deleting a saved object.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to delete a saved object.

.2+| `saved_object_close_point_in_time`
| `unknown` | User is deleting a Point In Time that was used to query saved objects.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to delete a Point In Time.

.2+| `connector_delete`
| `unknown` | User is deleting a connector.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to delete a connector.

.2+| `rule_delete`
| `unknown` | User is deleting a rule.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to delete a rule.

.2+| `space_delete`
| `unknown` | User is deleting a space.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to delete a space.

3+a|
====== Type: access

| *Action*
| *Outcome*
| *Description*

.2+| `saved_object_get`
| `success` | User has accessed a saved object.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to access a saved object.

.2+| `saved_object_resolve`
| `success` | User has accessed a saved object.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to access a saved object.

.2+| `saved_object_find`
| `success` | User has accessed a saved object as part of a search operation.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to search for saved objects.

.2+| `connector_get`
| `success` | User has accessed a connector.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to access a connector.

.2+| `connector_find`
| `success` | User has accessed a connector as part of a search operation.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to search for connectors.

.2+| `rule_get`
| `success` | User has accessed a rule.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to access a rule.

.2+| `rule_find`
| `success` | User has accessed a rule as part of a search operation.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to search for rules.

.2+| `space_get`
| `success` | User has accessed a space.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to access a space.

.2+| `space_find`
| `success` | User has accessed a space as part of a search operation.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to search for spaces.

.2+| `alert_get`
| `success` | User has accessed an alert.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to access an alert.

.2+| `alert_find`
| `success` | User has accessed an alert as part of a search operation.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to access alerts.

3+a|
===== Category: web

| *Action*
| *Outcome*
| *Description*

| `http_request`
| `unknown` | User is making an HTTP request.
|======


[[xpack-security-ecs-audit-schema]]
==== Audit schema

Audit logs are written in JSON using https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/ecs/1.6/index.html[Elastic Common Schema (ECS)] specification.

[cols="2*<"]
|======

2+a| ===== Base Fields

| *Field*
| *Description*

| `@timestamp`
| Time when the event was generated. 

Example: `2016-05-23T08:05:34.853Z`

| `message`
| Human readable description of the event. 

2+a| ===== Event Fields

| *Field*
| *Description*

| [[field-event-action]] `event.action`
| The action captured by the event.

Refer to <<xpack-security-ecs-audit-logging>> for a table of possible actions. 

| [[field-event-category]] `event.category`
| High level category associated with the event.

This field is closely related to `event.type`, which is used as a subcategory.

Possible values:
`database`,
`web`,
`authentication`

| [[field-event-type]] `event.type`
| Subcategory associated with the event.

This field can be used along with the `event.category` field to enable filtering events down to a level appropriate for single visualization.

Possible values:
`creation`,
`access`,
`change`,
`deletion`

| [[field-event-outcome]] `event.outcome`
| Denotes whether the event represents a success or failure. 

Possible values:
`success`,
`failure`,
`unknown`

2+a| ===== User Fields

| *Field*
| *Description*

| `user.name`
| Login name of the user.

Example: `jdoe`

| `user.roles[]`
| Set of user roles at the time of the event.

Example: `[kibana_admin, reporting_user]`

2+a| ===== Kibana Fields

| *Field*
| *Description*

| `kibana.space_id`
| ID of the space associated with the event.

Example: `default`

| `kibana.session_id`
| ID of the user session associated with the event. 

Each login attempt results in a unique session id.

| `kibana.saved_object.type`
| Type of saved object associated with the event.

Example: `dashboard`

| `kibana.saved_object.id`
| ID of the saved object associated with the event.

| `kibana.authentication_provider`
| Name of the authentication provider associated with the event.

Example: `my-saml-provider`

| `kibana.authentication_type`
| Type of the authentication provider associated with the event.

Example: `saml`

| `kibana.authentication_realm`
| Name of the Elasticsearch realm that has authenticated the user.

Example: `native`

| `kibana.lookup_realm`
| Name of the Elasticsearch realm where the user details were retrieved from.

Example: `native`

| `kibana.add_to_spaces[]`
| Set of space IDs that a saved object is being shared to as part of the event.

Example: `[default, marketing]`

| `kibana.delete_from_spaces[]`
| Set of space IDs that a saved object is being removed from as part of the event.

Example: `[marketing]`

2+a| ===== Error Fields

| *Field*
| *Description*

| `error.code`
| Error code describing the error.

| `error.message`
| Error message. 

2+a| ===== HTTP and URL Fields

| *Field*
| *Description*

| `http.request.method`
| HTTP request method.

Example: `get`, `post`, `put`, `delete`

| `url.domain`
| Domain of the url.

Example: `www.elastic.co`

| `url.path`
| Path of the request.

Example: `/search`

| `url.port`
| Port of the request.

Example: `443`

| `url.query`
| The query field describes the query string of the request.

Example: `q=elasticsearch`

| `url.scheme`
| Scheme of the request.

Example: `https`

2+a| ===== Tracing Fields

| *Field*
| *Description*

| [[field-trace-id]] `trace.id`
| Unique identifier allowing events of the same transaction from {kib} and {es} to be be correlated.

|======

[[xpack-security-ecs-audit-correlation]]
==== Correlating audit events

Audit events can be correlated in two ways:

1. Multiple {kib} audit events that resulted from the same request can be correlated together.
2. If {ref}/enable-audit-logging.html[{es} audit logging] is enabled, {kib} audit events from one request can be correlated with backend
   calls that create {es} audit events.

NOTE: The examples below are simplified, many fields have been omitted and values have been shortened for clarity.

===== Example 1: correlating multiple {kib} audit events

When "thom" creates a new alerting rule, five audit events are written:

[source,json]
-------------
{"event":{"action":"http_request","category":["web"],"outcome":"unknown"},"http":{"request":{"method":"post"}},"url":{"domain":"localhost","path":"/api/alerting/rule","port":5601,"scheme":"https"},"user":{"name":"thom","roles":["superuser"]},"kibana":{"space_id":"default","session_id":"3dHCZRB..."},"@timestamp":"2022-01-25T13:05:34.449-05:00","message":"User is requesting [/api/alerting/rule] endpoint","trace":{"id":"e300e06..."}}
{"event":{"action":"space_get","category":["database"],"type":["access"],"outcome":"success"},"kibana":{"space_id":"default","session_id":"3dHCZRB...","saved_object":{"type":"space","id":"default"}},"user":{"name":"thom","roles":["superuser"]},"@timestamp":"2022-01-25T13:05:34.454-05:00","message":"User has accessed space [id=default]","trace":{"id":"e300e06..."}}
{"event":{"action":"connector_get","category":["database"],"type":["access"],"outcome":"success"},"kibana":{"space_id":"default","session_id":"3dHCZRB...","saved_object":{"type":"action","id":"5e3b1ae..."}},"user":{"name":"thom","roles":["superuser"]},"@timestamp":"2022-01-25T13:05:34.948-05:00","message":"User has accessed connector [id=5e3b1ae...]","trace":{"id":"e300e06..."}}
{"event":{"action":"connector_get","category":["database"],"type":["access"],"outcome":"success"},"kibana":{"space_id":"default","session_id":"3dHCZRB...","saved_object":{"type":"action","id":"5e3b1ae..."}},"user":{"name":"thom","roles":["superuser"]},"@timestamp":"2022-01-25T13:05:34.956-05:00","message":"User has accessed connector [id=5e3b1ae...]","trace":{"id":"e300e06..."}}
{"event":{"action":"rule_create","category":["database"],"type":["creation"],"outcome":"unknown"},"kibana":{"space_id":"default","session_id":"3dHCZRB...","saved_object":{"type":"alert","id":"64517c3..."}},"user":{"name":"thom","roles":["superuser"]},"@timestamp":"2022-01-25T13:05:34.956-05:00","message":"User is creating rule [id=64517c3...]","trace":{"id":"e300e06..."}}
-------------

All of these audit events can be correlated together by the same `trace.id` value `"e300e06..."`. The first event is the HTTP API call, the
next audit events are checks to validate the space and the connectors, and the last audit event is the actual rule creation.

===== Example 2: correlating a {kib} audit event with {es} audit events

When "thom" logs in, a "user_login" {kib} audit event is written:

[source,json]
-------------
{"event":{"action":"user_login","category":["authentication"],"outcome":"success"},"kibana":{"session_id":"ab93zdA..."},"user":{"name":"thom","roles":["superuser"]},"@timestamp":"2022-01-25T09:40:39.267-05:00","message":"User [thom] has logged in using basic provider [name=basic]","trace":{"id":"818cbf3..."}}
-------------

The `trace.id` value `"818cbf3..."` in the {kib} audit event can be correlated with the `opaque_id` value in these six {es} audit events:

[source,json]
-------------
{"type":"audit", "timestamp":"2022-01-25T09:40:38,604-0500", "event.action":"access_granted", "user.name":"thom", "user.roles":["superuser"], "request.id":"YCx8wxs...", "action":"cluster:admin/xpack/security/user/authenticate", "request.name":"AuthenticateRequest", "opaque_id":"818cbf3..."}
{"type":"audit", "timestamp":"2022-01-25T09:40:38,613-0500", "event.action":"access_granted", "user.name":"kibana_system", "user.roles":["kibana_system"], "request.id":"Ksx73Ad...", "action":"indices:data/write/index", "request.name":"IndexRequest", "indices":[".kibana_security_session_1"], "opaque_id":"818cbf3..."}
{"type":"audit", "timestamp":"2022-01-25T09:40:38,613-0500", "event.action":"access_granted", "user.name":"kibana_system", "user.roles":["kibana_system"], "request.id":"Ksx73Ad...", "action":"indices:data/write/bulk", "request.name":"BulkRequest", "opaque_id":"818cbf3..."}
{"type":"audit", "timestamp":"2022-01-25T09:40:38,613-0500", "event.action":"access_granted", "user.name":"kibana_system", "user.roles":["kibana_system"], "request.id":"Ksx73Ad...", "action":"indices:data/write/bulk[s]", "request.name":"BulkShardRequest", "indices":[".kibana_security_session_1"], "opaque_id":"818cbf3..."}
{"type":"audit", "timestamp":"2022-01-25T09:40:38,613-0500", "event.action":"access_granted", "user.name":"kibana_system", "user.roles":["kibana_system"], "request.id":"Ksx73Ad...", "action":"indices:data/write/index:op_type/create", "request.name":"BulkItemRequest", "indices":[".kibana_security_session_1"], "opaque_id":"818cbf3..."}
{"type":"audit", "timestamp":"2022-01-25T09:40:38,613-0500", "event.action":"access_granted", "user.name":"kibana_system", "user.roles":["kibana_system"], "request.id":"Ksx73Ad...", "action":"indices:data/write/bulk[s][p]", "request.name":"BulkShardRequest", "indices":[".kibana_security_session_1"], "opaque_id":"818cbf3..."}
-------------

The {es} audit events show that "thom" authenticated, then subsequently "kibana_system" created a session for that user.

Commit message:

[Response Ops] API to retrieve execution log entries from event log. (#127339)
* wip

* wip

* Reverting changes not related to event log aggregation

* Reverting changes not related to event log aggregation

* Updating event log client find to take array of sort options

* Updating tests and adding basic aggregation function

* Adding tests

* Fixing functional test

* Fixing functional test

* Revert "Reverting changes not related to event log aggregation"

This reverts commit 939340e252f36796f272f663e7e75f275772cf84.

* Revert "Reverting changes not related to event log aggregation"

This reverts commit 40a93a4b3c02de15d3fb9448f830dffa385a54d0.

* Getting aggregation and parsing aggregation results

* Cleanup

* Changing api to internal

* Fixing types

* PR feedback

* omg types

* types and optional accessors

* Adding fn to calculate num executions based on date range

* Fleshing out rules client function and tests

* http api

* Cleanup

* Adding schedule delay

* Limit to 1000 logs

* Fixing security tests

* Fixing unit tests

* Validating numExecutions

* Changing sort input format

* Adding more sort fields

* Fixing unit tests

* Adding functional tests

* Adding sort to terms aggregation

* Fixing functional test

* Adding audit event for rule GET

* Adding audit event for rule execution log GET

* PR feedback

* Adding gap policy and using static num buckets

* Fixing checks

* Fixing checks

Co-authored-by: Kibana Machine <42973632+kibanamachine@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/user/security/audit-logging.asciidoc, after:

[role="xpack"]
[[xpack-security-audit-logging]]
=== Audit logs

Audit logging is a https://www.elastic.co/subscriptions[subscription feature] that you can enable to keep track of security-related events,
such as authorization success and failures. Logging these events enables you to monitor {kib} for suspicious activity and provides evidence
in the event of an attack.

Use the {kib} audit logs in conjunction with {ref}/enable-audit-logging.html[{es} audit logging] to get a
holistic view of all security related events. {kib} defers to the {es} security
model for authentication, data index authorization, and features that are driven
by cluster-wide privileges. For more information on enabling audit logging in
{es}, refer to {ref}/auditing.html[Auditing security events].

[NOTE]
============================================================================
Audit logs are **disabled** by default. To enable this functionality, you must
set `xpack.security.audit.enabled` to `true` in `kibana.yml`, and optionally configure
an <<audit-logging-settings, appender>> to write the audit log to a location of your choosing.
============================================================================

[[xpack-security-ecs-audit-logging]]
==== Audit events

Refer to the table of events that can be logged for auditing purposes. 

Each event is broken down into <<field-event-category, category>>, <<field-event-type, type>>, <<field-event-action, action>> and
<<field-event-outcome, outcome>> fields to make it easy to filter, query and aggregate the resulting logs. The <<field-trace-id, trace.id>>
field can be used to correlate multiple events that originate from the same request.

Refer to <<xpack-security-ecs-audit-schema>> for a table of fields that get logged with audit event. 

[NOTE]
============================================================================
To ensure that a record of every operation is persisted even in case of an
unexpected error, asynchronous write operations are logged immediately after all
authorization checks have passed, but before the response from {es} is received.
Refer to the corresponding {es} logs for potential write errors.
============================================================================

[cols="3*<"]
|======
3+a|
===== Category: authentication

| *Action*
| *Outcome*
| *Description*

.2+| `user_login`
| `success` | User has logged in successfully.
| `failure` | Failed login attempt (e.g. due to invalid credentials).

| `user_logout`
| `unknown` | User is logging out.

| `session_cleanup`
| `unknown` | Removing invalid or expired session.

| `access_agreement_acknowledged`
| n/a | User has acknowledged the access agreement.

3+a|
===== Category: database
====== Type: creation

| *Action*
| *Outcome*
| *Description*

.2+| `saved_object_create`
| `unknown` | User is creating a saved object.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to create a saved object.

.2+| `saved_object_open_point_in_time`
| `unknown` | User is creating a Point In Time to use when querying saved objects.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to create a Point In Time for the provided saved object types.

.2+| `connector_create`
| `unknown` | User is creating a connector.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to create a connector.

.2+| `rule_create`
| `unknown` | User is creating a rule.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to create a rule.

.2+| `space_create`
| `unknown` | User is creating a space.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to create a space.

3+a|
====== Type: change

| *Action*
| *Outcome*
| *Description*

.2+| `saved_object_update`
| `unknown` | User is updating a saved object.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to update a saved object.

.2+| `saved_object_add_to_spaces`
| `unknown` | User is adding a saved object to other spaces.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to add a saved object to other spaces.

.2+| `saved_object_delete_from_spaces`
| `unknown` | User is removing a saved object from other spaces.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to remove a saved object from other spaces.

.2+| `saved_object_remove_references`
| `unknown` | User is removing references to a saved object.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to remove references to a saved object.

.2+| `connector_update`
| `unknown` | User is updating a connector.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to update a connector.

.2+| `rule_update`
| `unknown` | User is updating a rule.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to update a rule.

.2+| `rule_update_api_key`
| `unknown` | User is updating the API key of a rule.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to update the API key of a rule.

.2+| `rule_enable`
| `unknown` | User is enabling a rule.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to enable a rule.

.2+| `rule_disable`
| `unknown` | User is disabling a rule.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to disable a rule.

.2+| `rule_mute`
| `unknown` | User is muting a rule.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to mute a rule.

.2+| `rule_unmute`
| `unknown` | User is unmuting a rule.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to unmute a rule.

.2+| `rule_alert_mute`
| `unknown` | User is muting an alert.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to mute an alert.

.2+| `rule_alert_unmute`
| `unknown` | User is unmuting an alert.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to unmute an alert.

.2+| `space_update`
| `unknown` | User is updating a space.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to update a space.

.2+| `alert_update`
| `unknown` | User is updating an alert.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to update an alert.

3+a|
====== Type: deletion

| *Action*
| *Outcome*
| *Description*

.2+| `saved_object_delete`
| `unknown` | User is deleting a saved object.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to delete a saved object.

.2+| `saved_object_close_point_in_time`
| `unknown` | User is deleting a Point In Time that was used to query saved objects.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to delete a Point In Time.

.2+| `connector_delete`
| `unknown` | User is deleting a connector.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to delete a connector.

.2+| `rule_delete`
| `unknown` | User is deleting a rule.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to delete a rule.

.2+| `space_delete`
| `unknown` | User is deleting a space.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to delete a space.

3+a|
====== Type: access

| *Action*
| *Outcome*
| *Description*

.2+| `saved_object_get`
| `success` | User has accessed a saved object.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to access a saved object.

.2+| `saved_object_resolve`
| `success` | User has accessed a saved object.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to access a saved object.

.2+| `saved_object_find`
| `success` | User has accessed a saved object as part of a search operation.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to search for saved objects.

.2+| `connector_get`
| `success` | User has accessed a connector.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to access a connector.

.2+| `connector_find`
| `success` | User has accessed a connector as part of a search operation.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to search for connectors.

.2+| `rule_get`
| `success` | User has accessed a rule.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to access a rule.

.2+| `rule_get_execution_log`
| `success` | User has accessed execution log for a rule.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to access execution log for a rule.

.2+| `rule_find`
| `success` | User has accessed a rule as part of a search operation.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to search for rules.

.2+| `space_get`
| `success` | User has accessed a space.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to access a space.

.2+| `space_find`
| `success` | User has accessed a space as part of a search operation.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to search for spaces.

.2+| `alert_get`
| `success` | User has accessed an alert.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to access an alert.

.2+| `alert_find`
| `success` | User has accessed an alert as part of a search operation.
| `failure` | User is not authorized to access alerts.

3+a|
===== Category: web

| *Action*
| *Outcome*
| *Description*

| `http_request`
| `unknown` | User is making an HTTP request.
|======


[[xpack-security-ecs-audit-schema]]
==== Audit schema

Audit logs are written in JSON using https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/ecs/1.6/index.html[Elastic Common Schema (ECS)] specification.

[cols="2*<"]
|======

2+a| ===== Base Fields

| *Field*
| *Description*

| `@timestamp`
| Time when the event was generated. 

Example: `2016-05-23T08:05:34.853Z`

| `message`
| Human readable description of the event. 

2+a| ===== Event Fields

| *Field*
| *Description*

| [[field-event-action]] `event.action`
| The action captured by the event.

Refer to <<xpack-security-ecs-audit-logging>> for a table of possible actions. 

| [[field-event-category]] `event.category`
| High level category associated with the event.

This field is closely related to `event.type`, which is used as a subcategory.

Possible values:
`database`,
`web`,
`authentication`

| [[field-event-type]] `event.type`
| Subcategory associated with the event.

This field can be used along with the `event.category` field to enable filtering events down to a level appropriate for single visualization.

Possible values:
`creation`,
`access`,
`change`,
`deletion`

| [[field-event-outcome]] `event.outcome`
| Denotes whether the event represents a success or failure. 

Possible values:
`success`,
`failure`,
`unknown`

2+a| ===== User Fields

| *Field*
| *Description*

| `user.name`
| Login name of the user.

Example: `jdoe`

| `user.roles[]`
| Set of user roles at the time of the event.

Example: `[kibana_admin, reporting_user]`

2+a| ===== Kibana Fields

| *Field*
| *Description*

| `kibana.space_id`
| ID of the space associated with the event.

Example: `default`

| `kibana.session_id`
| ID of the user session associated with the event. 

Each login attempt results in a unique session id.

| `kibana.saved_object.type`
| Type of saved object associated with the event.

Example: `dashboard`

| `kibana.saved_object.id`
| ID of the saved object associated with the event.

| `kibana.authentication_provider`
| Name of the authentication provider associated with the event.

Example: `my-saml-provider`

| `kibana.authentication_type`
| Type of the authentication provider associated with the event.

Example: `saml`

| `kibana.authentication_realm`
| Name of the Elasticsearch realm that has authenticated the user.

Example: `native`

| `kibana.lookup_realm`
| Name of the Elasticsearch realm where the user details were retrieved from.

Example: `native`

| `kibana.add_to_spaces[]`
| Set of space IDs that a saved object is being shared to as part of the event.

Example: `[default, marketing]`

| `kibana.delete_from_spaces[]`
| Set of space IDs that a saved object is being removed from as part of the event.

Example: `[marketing]`

2+a| ===== Error Fields

| *Field*
| *Description*

| `error.code`
| Error code describing the error.

| `error.message`
| Error message. 

2+a| ===== HTTP and URL Fields

| *Field*
| *Description*

| `http.request.method`
| HTTP request method.

Example: `get`, `post`, `put`, `delete`

| `url.domain`
| Domain of the url.

Example: `www.elastic.co`

| `url.path`
| Path of the request.

Example: `/search`

| `url.port`
| Port of the request.

Example: `443`

| `url.query`
| The query field describes the query string of the request.

Example: `q=elasticsearch`

| `url.scheme`
| Scheme of the request.

Example: `https`

2+a| ===== Tracing Fields

| *Field*
| *Description*

| [[field-trace-id]] `trace.id`
| Unique identifier allowing events of the same transaction from {kib} and {es} to be be correlated.

|======

[[xpack-security-ecs-audit-correlation]]
==== Correlating audit events

Audit events can be correlated in two ways:

1. Multiple {kib} audit events that resulted from the same request can be correlated together.
2. If {ref}/enable-audit-logging.html[{es} audit logging] is enabled, {kib} audit events from one request can be correlated with backend
   calls that create {es} audit events.

NOTE: The examples below are simplified, many fields have been omitted and values have been shortened for clarity.

===== Example 1: correlating multiple {kib} audit events

When "thom" creates a new alerting rule, five audit events are written:

[source,json]
-------------
{"event":{"action":"http_request","category":["web"],"outcome":"unknown"},"http":{"request":{"method":"post"}},"url":{"domain":"localhost","path":"/api/alerting/rule","port":5601,"scheme":"https"},"user":{"name":"thom","roles":["superuser"]},"kibana":{"space_id":"default","session_id":"3dHCZRB..."},"@timestamp":"2022-01-25T13:05:34.449-05:00","message":"User is requesting [/api/alerting/rule] endpoint","trace":{"id":"e300e06..."}}
{"event":{"action":"space_get","category":["database"],"type":["access"],"outcome":"success"},"kibana":{"space_id":"default","session_id":"3dHCZRB...","saved_object":{"type":"space","id":"default"}},"user":{"name":"thom","roles":["superuser"]},"@timestamp":"2022-01-25T13:05:34.454-05:00","message":"User has accessed space [id=default]","trace":{"id":"e300e06..."}}
{"event":{"action":"connector_get","category":["database"],"type":["access"],"outcome":"success"},"kibana":{"space_id":"default","session_id":"3dHCZRB...","saved_object":{"type":"action","id":"5e3b1ae..."}},"user":{"name":"thom","roles":["superuser"]},"@timestamp":"2022-01-25T13:05:34.948-05:00","message":"User has accessed connector [id=5e3b1ae...]","trace":{"id":"e300e06..."}}
{"event":{"action":"connector_get","category":["database"],"type":["access"],"outcome":"success"},"kibana":{"space_id":"default","session_id":"3dHCZRB...","saved_object":{"type":"action","id":"5e3b1ae..."}},"user":{"name":"thom","roles":["superuser"]},"@timestamp":"2022-01-25T13:05:34.956-05:00","message":"User has accessed connector [id=5e3b1ae...]","trace":{"id":"e300e06..."}}
{"event":{"action":"rule_create","category":["database"],"type":["creation"],"outcome":"unknown"},"kibana":{"space_id":"default","session_id":"3dHCZRB...","saved_object":{"type":"alert","id":"64517c3..."}},"user":{"name":"thom","roles":["superuser"]},"@timestamp":"2022-01-25T13:05:34.956-05:00","message":"User is creating rule [id=64517c3...]","trace":{"id":"e300e06..."}}
-------------

All of these audit events can be correlated together by the same `trace.id` value `"e300e06..."`. The first event is the HTTP API call, the
next audit events are checks to validate the space and the connectors, and the last audit event is the actual rule creation.

===== Example 2: correlating a {kib} audit event with {es} audit events

When "thom" logs in, a "user_login" {kib} audit event is written:

[source,json]
-------------
{"event":{"action":"user_login","category":["authentication"],"outcome":"success"},"kibana":{"session_id":"ab93zdA..."},"user":{"name":"thom","roles":["superuser"]},"@timestamp":"2022-01-25T09:40:39.267-05:00","message":"User [thom] has logged in using basic provider [name=basic]","trace":{"id":"818cbf3..."}}
-------------

The `trace.id` value `"818cbf3..."` in the {kib} audit event can be correlated with the `opaque_id` value in these six {es} audit events:

[source,json]
-------------
{"type":"audit", "timestamp":"2022-01-25T09:40:38,604-0500", "event.action":"access_granted", "user.name":"thom", "user.roles":["superuser"], "request.id":"YCx8wxs...", "action":"cluster:admin/xpack/security/user/authenticate", "request.name":"AuthenticateRequest", "opaque_id":"818cbf3..."}
{"type":"audit", "timestamp":"2022-01-25T09:40:38,613-0500", "event.action":"access_granted", "user.name":"kibana_system", "user.roles":["kibana_system"], "request.id":"Ksx73Ad...", "action":"indices:data/write/index", "request.name":"IndexRequest", "indices":[".kibana_security_session_1"], "opaque_id":"818cbf3..."}
{"type":"audit", "timestamp":"2022-01-25T09:40:38,613-0500", "event.action":"access_granted", "user.name":"kibana_system", "user.roles":["kibana_system"], "request.id":"Ksx73Ad...", "action":"indices:data/write/bulk", "request.name":"BulkRequest", "opaque_id":"818cbf3..."}
{"type":"audit", "timestamp":"2022-01-25T09:40:38,613-0500", "event.action":"access_granted", "user.name":"kibana_system", "user.roles":["kibana_system"], "request.id":"Ksx73Ad...", "action":"indices:data/write/bulk[s]", "request.name":"BulkShardRequest", "indices":[".kibana_security_session_1"], "opaque_id":"818cbf3..."}
{"type":"audit", "timestamp":"2022-01-25T09:40:38,613-0500", "event.action":"access_granted", "user.name":"kibana_system", "user.roles":["kibana_system"], "request.id":"Ksx73Ad...", "action":"indices:data/write/index:op_type/create", "request.name":"BulkItemRequest", "indices":[".kibana_security_session_1"], "opaque_id":"818cbf3..."}
{"type":"audit", "timestamp":"2022-01-25T09:40:38,613-0500", "event.action":"access_granted", "user.name":"kibana_system", "user.roles":["kibana_system"], "request.id":"Ksx73Ad...", "action":"indices:data/write/bulk[s][p]", "request.name":"BulkShardRequest", "indices":[".kibana_security_session_1"], "opaque_id":"818cbf3..."}
-------------

The {es} audit events show that "thom" authenticated, then subsequently "kibana_system" created a session for that user.
