docs/user/security/reporting.asciidoc, before:

[role="xpack"]
[[secure-reporting]]
=== Reporting and security

Reporting operates by creating and updating documents in {es} in response to
user actions in {kib}.

To use {reporting} with {security} enabled, you need to
<<using-kibana-with-security,set up {kib} to work with {security}>>.
If you are automatically generating reports with
{ref}/xpack-alerting.html[{watcher}], you also need to configure {watcher}
to trust the {kib} server's certificate.
////
For more information, see
<<securing-reporting>>.
////

[[reporting-app-users]]
To enable users to generate reports, you must assign them the built-in `reporting_user`
role.  Users will also need the appropriate <<kibana-privileges, {kib} privileges>> to access the objects
to report on and the {es} indices.

[float]
[[reporting-roles-management-ui]]
=== If you are using the `native` realm

You can assign roles through the
*Management* app in Kibana or with the <<reporting-roles-user-api, user API>>.
This example shows how to use *Management* to create a user who has a custom role and the
`reporting_user` role.

. Go to *Management > Roles*, and click *Create role*.

. Give the new role a name, for example, `custom_reporting_user`.

. Specify the indices and privileges.
+
Access to data is an index-level privilege, so in *Create role*,
add a line for each index that contains the data for the report and give each
index `read` and `view_index_metadata` privileges.
For more information, see {ref}/security-privileges.html[Security privileges].
+
[role="screenshot"]
image::user/security/images/reporting-privileges-example.png["Reporting privileges"]

. Add space privileges.
+
Reporting users typically save searches, create
visualizations, and build dashboards. They require a space
that provides read and write privileges in
*Discover*, *Visualize*, and *Dashboard*.

. Save your new role.

. Create a user account with the proper roles.
+
Go to *Management > Users*, add a new user, and assign the user the built-in
`reporting_user` role and your new custom role, `custom_reporting_user`.

[float]
[[reporting-roles-user-api]]
==== With the user API
This example uses the {ref}/security-api-put-user.html[user API] to create a user who has the
`reporting_user` role and the `kibana_user` role:

[source, sh]
---------------------------------------------------------------
POST /_security/user/reporter
{
  "password" : "x-pack-test-password",
  "roles" : ["kibana_user", "reporting_user"],
  "full_name" : "Reporting User"
}
---------------------------------------------------------------

[float]
=== If you are using an external identity provider

If you are using an external identity provider, such as
LDAP or Active Directory, you can either assign
roles on a per user basis, or assign roles to groups of users. By default, role
mappings are configured in
{ref}/mapping-roles.html[`config/shield/role_mapping.yml`].
For example, the following snippet assigns the user named Bill Murray the
`kibana_user` and `reporting_user` roles:

[source,yaml]
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
kibana_user:
  - "cn=Bill Murray,dc=example,dc=com"
reporting_user:
  - "cn=Bill Murray,dc=example,dc=com"
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[role="xpack"]
[[securing-reporting]]
=== Secure the reporting endpoints

In a production environment, you should restrict access to
the {reporting} endpoints to authorized users. This requires that you:

. Enable {security} on your {es} cluster. For more information,
see {ref}/security-getting-started.html[Getting Started with Security].
. Configure an SSL certificate for Kibana. For more information, see
<<using-kibana-with-security>>.
. Configure {watcher} to trust the Kibana server's certificate by adding it to
the {watcher} truststore on each node:
.. Import the {kib} server certificate into the {watcher} truststore using
Java Keytool:
+
[source,shell]
---------------------------------------------------------
keytool -importcert -keystore watcher-truststore.jks -file server.crt
---------------------------------------------------------
+
NOTE: If the truststore doesn't already exist, it is created.

.. Make sure the `xpack.http.ssl.truststore.path` setting in
`elasticsearch.yml` specifies the location of the {watcher}
truststore.
. Add one or more users who have the permissions
necessary to use {kib} and {reporting}. For more information, see
<<secure-reporting>>.

Once you've enabled SSL for {kib}, all requests to the {reporting} endpoints
must include valid credentials. For example, see the following page which
includes a watch that submits requests as the built-in `elastic` user:
<<automating-report-generation>>.

For more information about configuring watches, see
{ref}/how-watcher-works.html[How Watcher works].

Commit message:

[DOCS][Reporting] Adds info about using a custom reporting index (#54052) (#54170)
* [DOCS][Reporting] Adds info about using a custom reporting index

* [DOCS] Incorporates edits into reporting security doc

docs/user/security/reporting.asciidoc, after:

[role="xpack"]
[[secure-reporting]]
=== Reporting and security

Reporting operates by creating and updating documents in {es} in response to
user actions in {kib}.

To use {reporting} with {security} enabled, you need to
<<using-kibana-with-security,set up {kib} to work with {security}>>.
If you are automatically generating reports with
{ref}/xpack-alerting.html[{watcher}], you also need to configure {watcher}
to trust the {kib} server's certificate.
////
For more information, see
<<securing-reporting>>.
////

[[reporting-app-users]]
To enable users to generate reports, you must assign them the built-in `reporting_user`
role.  Users will also need the appropriate <<kibana-privileges, {kib} privileges>> to access the objects
to report on and the {es} indices.

[float]
[[reporting-roles-management-ui]]
=== If you are using the `native` realm

You can assign roles through the
*Management* app in Kibana or with the <<reporting-roles-user-api, user API>>.
This example shows how to use *Management* to create a user who has a custom role and the
`reporting_user` role.

. Go to *Management > Roles*, and click *Create role*.

. Give the new role a name, for example, `custom_reporting_user`.

. Specify the indices and privileges.
+
Access to data is an index-level privilege, so in *Create role*,
add a line for each index that contains the data for the report and give each
index `read` and `view_index_metadata` privileges.
For more information, see {ref}/security-privileges.html[Security privileges].
+
[role="screenshot"]
image::user/security/images/reporting-privileges-example.png["Reporting privileges"]

. Add space privileges.
+
Reporting users typically save searches, create
visualizations, and build dashboards. They require a space
that provides read and write privileges in
*Discover*, *Visualize*, and *Dashboard*.

. Save your new role.

. Create a user account with the proper roles.
+
Go to *Management > Users*, add a new user, and assign the user the built-in
`reporting_user` role and your new custom role, `custom_reporting_user`.

[float]
==== With a custom index

If you are using Reporting with a custom index,
the `xpack.reporting.index` setting should begin 
with `.reporting-*`. The default {kib} system user has
`all` privileges against the `.reporting-*` pattern of indices.

[source,js]
xpack.reporting.index: '.reporting-custom-index'

If you use a different pattern for the `xpack.reporting.index` setting,
you must create a custom role with appropriate access to the index, similar
to the following:

. Go to *Management > Roles*, and click *Create role*.
. Name the role `custom-reporting-user`.
. Specify the custom index and assign it the `all` index privilege.
. Go to *Management > Users* and create a new user with
the `kibana_system` role and the `custom-reporting-user` role.
. Configure {kib} to use the new account:
[source,js]
elasticsearch.username: 'custom_kibana_system'

[float]
[[reporting-roles-user-api]]
==== With the user API
This example uses the {ref}/security-api-put-user.html[user API] to create a user who has the
`reporting_user` role and the `kibana_user` role:

[source, sh]
---------------------------------------------------------------
POST /_security/user/reporter
{
  "password" : "x-pack-test-password",
  "roles" : ["kibana_user", "reporting_user"],
  "full_name" : "Reporting User"
}
---------------------------------------------------------------

[float]
=== If you are using an external identity provider

If you are using an external identity provider, such as
LDAP or Active Directory, you can either assign
roles on a per user basis, or assign roles to groups of users. By default, role
mappings are configured in
{ref}/mapping-roles.html[`config/shield/role_mapping.yml`].
For example, the following snippet assigns the user named Bill Murray the
`kibana_user` and `reporting_user` roles:

[source,yaml]
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
kibana_user:
  - "cn=Bill Murray,dc=example,dc=com"
reporting_user:
  - "cn=Bill Murray,dc=example,dc=com"
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[role="xpack"]
[[securing-reporting]]
=== Secure the reporting endpoints

In a production environment, you should restrict access to
the {reporting} endpoints to authorized users. This requires that you:

. Enable {security} on your {es} cluster. For more information,
see {ref}/security-getting-started.html[Getting Started with Security].
. Configure an SSL certificate for Kibana. For more information, see
<<using-kibana-with-security>>.
. Configure {watcher} to trust the Kibana server's certificate by adding it to
the {watcher} truststore on each node:
.. Import the {kib} server certificate into the {watcher} truststore using
Java Keytool:
+
[source,shell]
---------------------------------------------------------
keytool -importcert -keystore watcher-truststore.jks -file server.crt
---------------------------------------------------------
+
NOTE: If the truststore doesn't already exist, it is created.

.. Make sure the `xpack.http.ssl.truststore.path` setting in
`elasticsearch.yml` specifies the location of the {watcher}
truststore.
. Add one or more users who have the permissions
necessary to use {kib} and {reporting}. For more information, see
<<secure-reporting>>.

Once you've enabled SSL for {kib}, all requests to the {reporting} endpoints
must include valid credentials. For example, see the following page which
includes a watch that submits requests as the built-in `elastic` user:
<<automating-report-generation>>.

For more information about configuring watches, see
{ref}/how-watcher-works.html[How Watcher works].
