docs/user/security/securing-kibana.asciidoc, before:

[role="xpack"]
[[using-kibana-with-security]]
== Configure security in {kib}
++++
<titleabbrev>Configure security</titleabbrev>
++++

When you start {es} for the first time, {stack-security-features} are enabled on
your cluster and TLS is configured automatically. The security configuration
process generates a password for the `elastic` user and an enrollment token for
{kib}.
{ref}/configuring-stack-security.html[Start the {stack} with security enabled]
and then enroll {kib} as part of the configuration process.

You can then log in to {kib} as the `elastic` user to create additional roles
and users.

NOTE: When a user is not authorized to view data in an index (such as an {es}
index), the entire index will be inaccessible and not display in {kib}.

[discrete]
[[security-configure-settings]]
=== Configure security settings

Set an encryption key so that sessions are not invalidated. You can optionally
configure additional security settings and authentication.

. Set the `xpack.security.encryptionKey` property in the `kibana.yml`
configuration file. You can use any text string that is 32 characters or longer
as the encryption key.
+
--
[source,yaml]
----
xpack.security.encryptionKey: "something_at_least_32_characters"
----

For more information, see <<security-settings-kb,Security settings in {kib}>>.
--

. Optional: <<xpack-security-session-management,Configure {kib}'s session expiration settings>>.

. Optional: <<elasticsearch-mutual-tls,Configure {kib} to authenticate to {es} with a client certificate>>.

. Restart {kib}.

[discrete]
[[security-create-roles]]
=== Create roles and users
Configure roles for your {kib} users to control what data those users can
access.

. Temporarily log in to {kib} using the built-in `elastic` superuser so you can
create new users and assign roles. If you are running {kib} locally, go to
`https://localhost:5601` to view the login page.
+
NOTE: The password for the built-in `elastic` user is generated as part of the
security configuration process on {es}. If you need to reset the password for
the `elastic` user or other built-in users, run the
{ref}/reset-password.html[`elasticsearch-reset-password`] tool.

. [[kibana-roles]]Create roles and users to grant access to {kib}.
+
--
To manage privileges in {kib}, open the main menu, then click *Stack Management > Roles*. The built-in `kibana_admin` role will grant
access to {kib} with administrator privileges. Alternatively, you can create additional roles that grant limited access to {kib}.

If you're using the default native realm with Basic Authentication, open the main menu, then click *Stack Management > Users* to create
users and assign roles, or use the {es} {ref}/security-api.html#security-user-apis[user management APIs]. For example, the following creates
a user named `jacknich` and assigns it the `kibana_admin` role:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
POST /_security/user/jacknich
{
  "password" : "t0pS3cr3t",
  "roles" : [ "kibana_admin" ]
}
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE

TIP: For more information on Basic Authentication and additional methods of authenticating {kib} users, see <<kibana-authentication>>.
--

. Grant users access to the indices that they will be working with in {kib}.
+
--
TIP: You can define as many different roles for your {kib} users as you need.

For example, create roles that have `read` and `view_index_metadata` privileges
on specific data views. For more information, see
{ref}/authorization.html[User authorization].

--

. Log out of {kib} and verify that you can log in as a normal user. If you are running {kib} locally, go to `https://localhost:5601` and
enter the credentials for a user you've assigned a {kib} user role. For example, you could log in as the user `jacknich`.
+
NOTE: This must be a user who has been assigned <<kibana-privileges, Kibana privileges>>. {kib} server credentials (the built-in
`kibana_system` user) should only be used internally by the {kib} server.

include::authentication/index.asciidoc[]
include::securing-communications/elasticsearch-mutual-tls.asciidoc[]
include::audit-logging.asciidoc[]
include::access-agreement.asciidoc[]
include::session-management.asciidoc[]
include::secure-saved-objects.asciidoc[]

Commit message:

[DOCS] Add cross-link for other encryption key settings (#165014)
Problem: The [Configure security in Kibana](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/kibana/current/using-kibana-with-security.html) docs page only covers the `xpack.security.encryptionKey` setting for session encryption. Users may not know that encryption for Kibana's reporting and saved objects features also require encryption keys.

Solution: Add a cross-link to the respective encryption key settings for  reporting and saved objects

docs/user/security/securing-kibana.asciidoc, after:

[role="xpack"]
[[using-kibana-with-security]]
== Configure security in {kib}
++++
<titleabbrev>Configure security</titleabbrev>
++++

When you start {es} for the first time, {stack-security-features} are enabled on
your cluster and TLS is configured automatically. The security configuration
process generates a password for the `elastic` user and an enrollment token for
{kib}.
{ref}/configuring-stack-security.html[Start the {stack} with security enabled]
and then enroll {kib} as part of the configuration process.

You can then log in to {kib} as the `elastic` user to create additional roles
and users.

NOTE: When a user is not authorized to view data in an index (such as an {es}
index), the entire index will be inaccessible and not display in {kib}.

[discrete]
[[security-configure-settings]]
=== Configure security settings

Set an encryption key so that sessions are not invalidated. You can optionally
configure additional security settings and authentication.

. Set the `xpack.security.encryptionKey` property in the `kibana.yml`
configuration file. You can use any text string that is 32 characters or longer
as the encryption key. Refer to <<xpack-security-encryptionKey,`xpack.security.encryptionKey`>>.
+
--
[source,yaml]
----
xpack.security.encryptionKey: "something_at_least_32_characters"
----

{kib}'s reporting and saved objects features also have encryption key settings.
Refer to <<xpack-reporting-encryptionKey,`xpack.reporting.encryptionKey`>> and
<<xpack-encryptedSavedObjects-encryptionKey,`xpack.encryptedSavedObjects.encryptionKey`>>
respectively.
--

. Optional: <<xpack-security-session-management,Configure {kib}'s session expiration settings>>.

. Optional: <<elasticsearch-mutual-tls,Configure {kib} to authenticate to {es} with a client certificate>>.

. Restart {kib}.

[discrete]
[[security-create-roles]]
=== Create roles and users
Configure roles for your {kib} users to control what data those users can
access.

. Temporarily log in to {kib} using the built-in `elastic` superuser so you can
create new users and assign roles. If you are running {kib} locally, go to
`https://localhost:5601` to view the login page.
+
NOTE: The password for the built-in `elastic` user is generated as part of the
security configuration process on {es}. If you need to reset the password for
the `elastic` user or other built-in users, run the
{ref}/reset-password.html[`elasticsearch-reset-password`] tool.

. [[kibana-roles]]Create roles and users to grant access to {kib}.
+
--
To manage privileges in {kib}, open the main menu, then click *Stack Management > Roles*. The built-in `kibana_admin` role will grant
access to {kib} with administrator privileges. Alternatively, you can create additional roles that grant limited access to {kib}.

If you're using the default native realm with Basic Authentication, open the main menu, then click *Stack Management > Users* to create
users and assign roles, or use the {es} {ref}/security-api.html#security-user-apis[user management APIs]. For example, the following creates
a user named `jacknich` and assigns it the `kibana_admin` role:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
POST /_security/user/jacknich
{
  "password" : "t0pS3cr3t",
  "roles" : [ "kibana_admin" ]
}
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE

TIP: For more information on Basic Authentication and additional methods of authenticating {kib} users, see <<kibana-authentication>>.
--

. Grant users access to the indices that they will be working with in {kib}.
+
--
TIP: You can define as many different roles for your {kib} users as you need.

For example, create roles that have `read` and `view_index_metadata` privileges
on specific data views. For more information, see
{ref}/authorization.html[User authorization].

--

. Log out of {kib} and verify that you can log in as a normal user. If you are running {kib} locally, go to `https://localhost:5601` and
enter the credentials for a user you've assigned a {kib} user role. For example, you could log in as the user `jacknich`.
+
NOTE: This must be a user who has been assigned <<kibana-privileges, Kibana privileges>>. {kib} server credentials (the built-in
`kibana_system` user) should only be used internally by the {kib} server.

include::authentication/index.asciidoc[]
include::securing-communications/elasticsearch-mutual-tls.asciidoc[]
include::audit-logging.asciidoc[]
include::access-agreement.asciidoc[]
include::session-management.asciidoc[]
include::secure-saved-objects.asciidoc[]
