src/plugins/usage_collection/README.md, before:

# Kibana Usage Collection Service

Usage Collection allows collecting usage data for other services to consume (telemetry and monitoring).
To integrate with the telemetry services for usage collection of your feature, there are 2 steps:

1. Create a usage collector.
2. Register the usage collector.

## Creating and Registering Usage Collector

All you need to provide is a `type` for organizing your fields, `schema` field to define the expected types of usage fields reported, and a `fetch` method for returning your usage data. Then you need to make the Telemetry service aware of the collector by registering it.

1. Make sure `usageCollection` is in your optional Plugins:

    ```json
    // plugin/kibana.json
    {
      "id": "...",
      "optionalPlugins": ["usageCollection"]
    }
    ```

2. Register Usage collector in the `setup` function:

    ```ts
    // server/plugin.ts
    import { UsageCollectionSetup } from 'src/plugins/usage_collection/server';
    import { CoreSetup, CoreStart } from 'kibana/server';

    class Plugin {
      public setup(core: CoreSetup, plugins: { usageCollection?: UsageCollectionSetup }) {
        registerMyPluginUsageCollector(plugins.usageCollection);
      }

      public start(core: CoreStart) {}
    }
    ```

3. Creating and registering a Usage Collector. Ideally collectors would be defined in a separate directory `server/collectors/register.ts`.
    ```ts
    // server/collectors/register.ts
    import { UsageCollectionSetup, CollectorFetchContext } from 'src/plugins/usage_collection/server';
    import { APICluster } from 'kibana/server';

    interface Usage {
      my_objects: {
        total: number,
      },
    }

    export function registerMyPluginUsageCollector(usageCollection?: UsageCollectionSetup): void {
      // usageCollection is an optional dependency, so make sure to return if it is not registered.
      if (!usageCollection) {
        return;
      }

      // create usage collector
      const myCollector = usageCollection.makeUsageCollector<Usage>({
        type: 'MY_USAGE_TYPE',
        schema: {
          my_objects: {
            total: 'long',
          },
        },
        isReady: () => isCollectorFetchReady, // method to return true/false to confirm if the collector is ready for the fetch method to be called.
        
        fetch: async (collectorFetchContext: CollectorFetchContext) => {

        // query ES or saved objects and get some data
        // summarize the data into a model
        // return the modeled object that includes whatever you want to track

          return {
            my_objects: {
              total: SOME_NUMBER
            }
          };
        },
      });

      // register usage collector
      usageCollection.registerCollector(myCollector);
    }
    ```

Some background: 

- `MY_USAGE_TYPE` can be any string. It usually matches the plugin name. As a safety mechanism, we double check there are no duplicates at the moment of registering the collector.
- isReady() (added in v7.2.0 and v6.8.4) is a way for a usage collector to announce that some async process must finish first before it will return data synchronously. If any collector is not ready, we try fetching again, up to a set amount of time. Once the allocated time interval is up, we collect data from those collectors that are ready and skip any that are not. What this means is that if a collector returns `true` for `isReady` and it actually isn't ready to return data, there won't be telemetry data for that user for the day. Every usage collector owner needs to really think about what it would mean for them if they missed the first few documents when Kibana starts and should implement this function with custom logic. 

 (e.g. the task manager needs to run a task first). If any collector reports that it is not ready when we try and collect data, we reset a flag to try again up to a specified interval
- The `fetch` method needs to support multiple contexts in which it is called. For example, when stats are pulled from a Kibana Metricbeat module, the Beat calls Kibana's stats API to invoke usage collection.
In this case, the `fetch` method is called as a result of an HTTP API request and `callCluster` wraps `callWithRequest` or `esClient` wraps `asCurrentUser`, where the request headers are expected to have read privilege on the entire `.kibana' index. The `fetch` method also exposes the saved objects client that will have the correct scope when the collectors' `fetch` method is called.

Note: there will be many cases where you won't need to use the `callCluster`, `esClient` or `soClient` function that gets passed in to your `fetch` method at all. Your feature might have an accumulating value in server memory, or read something from the OS.

In the case of using a custom SavedObjects client, it is up to the plugin to initialize the client to save the data and it is strongly recommended to scope that client to the `kibana_system` user.

```ts
// server/plugin.ts
import { UsageCollectionSetup } from 'src/plugins/usage_collection/server';
import { CoreSetup, CoreStart } from 'kibana/server';

class Plugin {
  private savedObjectsRepository?: ISavedObjectsRepository;

  public setup(core: CoreSetup, plugins: { usageCollection?: UsageCollectionSetup }) {
    registerMyPluginUsageCollector(plugins.usageCollection);
  }

  public start(core: CoreStart) {
    this.savedObjectsRepository = core.savedObjects.createInternalRepository();
  }
}
```

```ts
// server/collectors/register.ts
import { UsageCollectionSetup } from 'src/plugins/usage_collection/server';

export function registerMyPluginUsageCollector(
  usageCollection?: UsageCollectionSetup
  ): void {
  // usageCollection is an optional dependency, so make sure to return if it is not registered.
  if (!usageCollection) {
    return;
  }

  // create usage collector
  const myCollector = usageCollection.makeUsageCollector<Usage>(...)

  // register usage collector
  usageCollection.registerCollector(myCollector);
}
```

## Schema Field

The `schema` field is a proscribed data model assists with detecting changes in usage collector payloads. To define the collector schema add a schema field that specifies every possible field reported when registering the collector. Whenever the `schema` field is set or changed please run `node scripts/telemetry_check.js --fix` to update the stored schema json files.

### Allowed Schema Types

The `AllowedSchemaTypes` is the list of allowed schema types for the usage fields getting reported:

```
'long', 'integer', 'short', 'byte', 'double', 'float', 'keyword', 'text', 'boolean', 'date'
```

### Arrays

If any of your properties is an array, the schema definition must follow the convention below:

```
{ type: 'array', items: {...mySchemaDefinitionOfTheEntriesInTheArray} }
```

### Example

```ts
export const myCollector = makeUsageCollector<Usage>({
  type: 'my_working_collector',
  isReady: () => isFetchReadyToReturnData(),
  fetch() {
    return {
      my_greeting: 'hello',
      some_obj: {
        total: 123,
      },
      some_array: ['value1', 'value2'],
      some_array_of_obj: [{total: 123}],
    };
  },
  schema: {
    my_greeting: {
      type: 'keyword',
    },
    some_obj: {
      total: {
        type: 'long',
      },
    },
    some_array: {
      type: 'array',
      items: { type: 'keyword' }    
    },
    some_array_of_obj: {
      type: 'array',
      items: { 
        total: {
          type: 'long',
        },
      },   
    },
  },
});
```

## Update the telemetry payload and telemetry cluster field mappings

There is a module in the telemetry service that creates the payload of data that gets sent up to the telemetry cluster.

New fields added to the telemetry payload currently mean that telemetry cluster field mappings have to be updated, so they can be searched and aggregated in Kibana visualizations. This is also a short-term obligation. In the next refactoring phase, collectors will need to use a proscribed data model that eliminates maintenance of mappings in the telemetry cluster.

## Testing

There are a few ways you can test that your usage collector is working properly.

1. The `/api/stats?extended=true&legacy=true` HTTP API in Kibana (added in 6.4.0) will call the fetch methods of all the registered collectors, and add them to a stats object you can see in a browser or in curl. To test that your usage collector has been registered correctly and that it has the model of data you expected it to have, call that HTTP API manually and you should see a key in the `usage` object of the response named after your usage collector's `type` field. This method tests the Metricbeat scenario described above where `callCluster` wraps `callWithRequest`.
2. There is a dev script in x-pack that will give a sample of a payload of data that gets sent up to the telemetry cluster for the sending phase of telemetry. Collected data comes from:
    - The `.monitoring-*` indices, when Monitoring is enabled. Monitoring enhances the sent payload of telemetry by producing usage data potentially of multiple clusters that exist in the monitoring data. Monitoring data is time-based, and the time frame of collection is the last 15 minutes.
    - Live-pulled from ES API endpoints. This will get just real-time stats without context of historical data.
    - The dev script in x-pack can be run on the command-line with:

      ```shell
      cd x-pack
      node scripts/api_debug.js telemetry --host=http://localhost:5601
      ```

      Where `http://localhost:5601` is a Kibana server running in dev mode. If needed, authentication and basePath info can be provided in the command as well.
    - Automatic inclusion of all the stats fetched by collectors is added in [#22336](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/22336) / 6.5.0
3. In Dev mode, Kibana will send telemetry data to a staging telemetry cluster. Assuming you have access to the staging cluster, you can log in and check the latest documents for your new fields.
4. If you catch the network traffic coming from your browser when a telemetry payload is sent, you can examine the request payload body to see the data. This can be tricky as telemetry payloads are sent only once per day per browser. Use incognito mode or clear your localStorage data to force a telemetry payload.

## FAQ

1. **How should I design my data model?**  
   Keep it simple, and keep it to a model that Kibana will be able to understand. In short, that means don't rely on nested fields (arrays with objects). Flat arrays, such as arrays of strings are fine.
2. **If I accumulate an event counter in server memory, which my fetch method returns, won't it reset when the Kibana server restarts?**  
   Yes, but that is not a major concern. A visualization on such info might be a date histogram that gets events-per-second or something, which would be impacted by server restarts, so we'll have to offset the beginning of the time range when we detect that the latest metric is smaller than the earliest metric. That would be a pretty custom visualization, but perhaps future Kibana enhancements will be able to support that.


# UI Metric app

The UI metrics implementation in its current state is not useful. We are working on improving the implementation to enable teams to use the data to visualize and gather information from what is being reported. Please refer to the telemetry team if you are interested in adding ui_metrics to your plugin.

**Until a better implementation is introduced, please defer from adding any new ui metrics.**

## Purpose

The purpose of the UI Metric app is to provide a tool for gathering data on how users interact with
various UIs within Kibana. It's useful for gathering _aggregate_ information, e.g. "How many times
has Button X been clicked" or "How many times has Page Y been viewed".

With some finagling, it's even possible to add more meaning to the info you gather, such as "How many
visualizations were created in less than 5 minutes".

### What it doesn't do

The UI Metric app doesn't gather any metadata around a user interaction, e.g. the user's identity,
the name of a dashboard they've viewed, or the timestamp of the interaction.

## How to use it

To track a user interaction, use the `reportUiStats` method exposed by the plugin `usageCollection` in the public side:

1. Similarly to the server-side usage collection, make sure `usageCollection` is in your optional Plugins:

    ```json
    // plugin/kibana.json
    {
      "id": "...",
      "optionalPlugins": ["usageCollection"]
    }
    ```

2. Register Usage collector in the `setup` function:

    ```ts
    // public/plugin.ts
    class Plugin {
      setup(core, { usageCollection }) {
        if (usageCollection) {
          // Call the following method as many times as you want to report an increase in the count for this event
          usageCollection.reportUiStats(`<AppName>`, usageCollection.METRIC_TYPE.CLICK, `<EventName>`);
        }
      }
    }
    ```

Metric Types:

- `METRIC_TYPE.CLICK` for tracking clicks `trackMetric(METRIC_TYPE.CLICK, 'my_button_clicked');`
- `METRIC_TYPE.LOADED` for a component load or page load `trackMetric(METRIC_TYPE.LOADED', 'my_component_loaded');`
- `METRIC_TYPE.COUNT` for a tracking a misc count `trackMetric(METRIC_TYPE.COUNT', 'my_counter', <count> });`

Call this function whenever you would like to track a user interaction within your app. The function
accepts two arguments, `metricType` and `eventNames`. These should be underscore-delimited strings.
For example, to track the `my_event` metric in the app `my_app` call `trackUiMetric(METRIC_TYPE.*, 'my_event)`.

That's all you need to do!

To track multiple metrics within a single request, provide an array of events, e.g. `trackMetric(METRIC_TYPE.*, ['my_event1', 'my_event2', 'my_event3'])`.

### Disallowed characters

The colon character (`:`) should not be used in app name or event names. Colons play
a special role in how metrics are stored as saved objects.

### Tracking timed interactions

If you want to track how long it takes a user to do something, you'll need to implement the timing
logic yourself. You'll also need to predefine some buckets into which the UI metric can fall.
For example, if you're timing how long it takes to create a visualization, you may decide to
measure interactions that take less than 1 minute, 1-5 minutes, 5-20 minutes, and longer than 20 minutes.
To track these interactions, you'd use the timed length of the interaction to determine whether to
use a `eventName` of  `create_vis_1m`, `create_vis_5m`, `create_vis_20m`, or `create_vis_infinity`.

## How it works

Under the hood, your app and metric type will be stored in a saved object of type `user-metric` and the
ID `ui-metric:my_app:my_metric`. This saved object will have a `count` property which will be incremented
every time the above URI is hit.

These saved objects are automatically consumed by the stats API and surfaced under the
`ui_metric` namespace.

```json
{
  "ui_metric": {
    "my_app": [
      {
        "key": "my_metric",
        "value": 3
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

By storing these metrics and their counts as key-value pairs, we can add more metrics without having
to worry about exceeding the 1000-field soft limit in Elasticsearch.

The only caveat is that it makes it harder to consume in Kibana when analysing each entry in the array separately. In the telemetry team we are working to find a solution to this.

# Routes registered by this plugin

- `/api/ui_metric/report`: Used by `ui_metrics` usage collector instances to report their usage data to the server
- `/api/stats`: Get the metrics and usage ([details](./server/routes/stats/README.md))

Commit message:

updates usage_collection README with more details about isReady

src/plugins/usage_collection/README.md, after:

# Kibana Usage Collection Service

Usage Collection allows collecting usage data for other services to consume (telemetry and monitoring).
To integrate with the telemetry services for usage collection of your feature, there are 2 steps:

1. Create a usage collector.
2. Register the usage collector.

## Creating and Registering Usage Collector

Your usage collector needs to provide 
- a `type` for organizing your fields, 
- `schema` field to define the expected types of usage fields reported, 
- a `fetch` method for returning your usage data, and
- an `isReady` method (that returns true or false) for letting the telemetry service know if it needs to wait for any asynchronous action. 
Then you need to make the Telemetry service aware of the collector by registering it.

1. Make sure `usageCollection` is in your optional Plugins:

    ```json
    // plugin/kibana.json
    {
      "id": "...",
      "optionalPlugins": ["usageCollection"]
    }
    ```

2. Register Usage collector in the `setup` function:

    ```ts
    // server/plugin.ts
    import { UsageCollectionSetup } from 'src/plugins/usage_collection/server';
    import { CoreSetup, CoreStart } from 'kibana/server';

    class Plugin {
      public setup(core: CoreSetup, plugins: { usageCollection?: UsageCollectionSetup }) {
        registerMyPluginUsageCollector(plugins.usageCollection);
      }

      public start(core: CoreStart) {}
    }
    ```

3. Creating and registering a Usage Collector. Ideally collectors would be defined in a separate directory `server/collectors/register.ts`.
    ```ts
    // server/collectors/register.ts
    import { UsageCollectionSetup, CollectorFetchContext } from 'src/plugins/usage_collection/server';
    import { APICluster } from 'kibana/server';

    interface Usage {
      my_objects: {
        total: number,
      },
    }

    export function registerMyPluginUsageCollector(usageCollection?: UsageCollectionSetup): void {
      // usageCollection is an optional dependency, so make sure to return if it is not registered.
      if (!usageCollection) {
        return;
      }

      // create usage collector
      const myCollector = usageCollection.makeUsageCollector<Usage>({
        type: 'MY_USAGE_TYPE',
        schema: {
          my_objects: {
            total: 'long',
          },
        },
        isReady: () => isCollectorFetchReady, // Method to return `true`/`false` to confirm if the collector is ready for the `fetch` method to be called.
        
        fetch: async (collectorFetchContext: CollectorFetchContext) => {

        // query ES or saved objects and get some data
        // summarize the data into a model
        // return the modeled object that includes whatever you want to track

          return {
            my_objects: {
              total: SOME_NUMBER
            }
          };
        },
      });

      // register usage collector
      usageCollection.registerCollector(myCollector);
    }
    ```

Some background: 

- `MY_USAGE_TYPE` can be any string. It usually matches the plugin name. As a safety mechanism, we double check there are no duplicates at the moment of registering the collector.

- `isReady` (added in v7.2.0 and v6.8.4) is a way for a usage collector to announce that some async process must finish first before it will return data synchronously (e.g. the task manager needs to run a task first). If any collector reports that it is not ready when we call its `fetch` method, we reset a flag to try again and, after a set amount of time, collect data from those collectors that are ready and skip any that are not. This means that if a collector returns `true` for `isReady` and it actually isn't ready to return data, there won't be telemetry data from that collector for the day. You should consider what it means if your collector doesn't return data in the first few documents when Kibana starts or, if we should wait for any other reason (e.g. the task manager needs to run your task first). If you need to tell telemetry collection to wait, you should implement this function with custom logic. If your `fetch` method will always return data synchronously or you're intentionally catching errors in your `fetch` method, then you can return true for `isReady` as shown in the example below.

- The `fetch` method needs to support multiple contexts in which it is called. For example, when stats are pulled from a Kibana Metricbeat module, the Beat calls Kibana's stats API to invoke usage collection.
In this case, the `fetch` method is called as a result of an HTTP API request and `callCluster` wraps `callWithRequest` or `esClient` wraps `asCurrentUser`, where the request headers are expected to have read privilege on the entire `.kibana' index. The `fetch` method also exposes the saved objects client that will have the correct scope when the collectors' `fetch` method is called.

Note: there will be many cases where you won't need to use the `callCluster`, `esClient` or `soClient` function that gets passed in to your `fetch` method at all. Your feature might have an accumulating value in server memory, or read something from the OS.

In the case of using a custom SavedObjects client, it is up to the plugin to initialize the client to save the data and it is strongly recommended to scope that client to the `kibana_system` user.

```ts
// server/plugin.ts
import { UsageCollectionSetup } from 'src/plugins/usage_collection/server';
import { CoreSetup, CoreStart } from 'kibana/server';

class Plugin {
  private savedObjectsRepository?: ISavedObjectsRepository;

  public setup(core: CoreSetup, plugins: { usageCollection?: UsageCollectionSetup }) {
    registerMyPluginUsageCollector(plugins.usageCollection);
  }

  public start(core: CoreStart) {
    this.savedObjectsRepository = core.savedObjects.createInternalRepository();
  }
}
```

```ts
// server/collectors/register.ts
import { UsageCollectionSetup } from 'src/plugins/usage_collection/server';

export function registerMyPluginUsageCollector(
  usageCollection?: UsageCollectionSetup
  ): void {
  // usageCollection is an optional dependency, so make sure to return if it is not registered.
  if (!usageCollection) {
    return;
  }

  // create usage collector
  const myCollector = usageCollection.makeUsageCollector<Usage>(...)

  // register usage collector
  usageCollection.registerCollector(myCollector);
}
```

## Schema Field

The `schema` field is a proscribed data model assists with detecting changes in usage collector payloads. To define the collector schema add a schema field that specifies every possible field reported when registering the collector. Whenever the `schema` field is set or changed please run `node scripts/telemetry_check.js --fix` to update the stored schema json files.

### Allowed Schema Types

The `AllowedSchemaTypes` is the list of allowed schema types for the usage fields getting reported:

```
'long', 'integer', 'short', 'byte', 'double', 'float', 'keyword', 'text', 'boolean', 'date'
```

### Arrays

If any of your properties is an array, the schema definition must follow the convention below:

```
{ type: 'array', items: {...mySchemaDefinitionOfTheEntriesInTheArray} }
```

### Example

```ts
export const myCollector = makeUsageCollector<Usage>({
  type: 'my_working_collector',
  isReady: () => true, // `fetch` doesn't call async methods
  fetch() {
    return {
      my_greeting: 'hello',
      some_obj: {
        total: 123,
      },
      some_array: ['value1', 'value2'],
      some_array_of_obj: [{total: 123}],
    };
  },
  schema: {
    my_greeting: {
      type: 'keyword',
    },
    some_obj: {
      total: {
        type: 'long',
      },
    },
    some_array: {
      type: 'array',
      items: { type: 'keyword' }    
    },
    some_array_of_obj: {
      type: 'array',
      items: { 
        total: {
          type: 'long',
        },
      },   
    },
  },
});
```

## Update the telemetry payload and telemetry cluster field mappings

There is a module in the telemetry service that creates the payload of data that gets sent up to the telemetry cluster.

New fields added to the telemetry payload currently mean that telemetry cluster field mappings have to be updated, so they can be searched and aggregated in Kibana visualizations. This is also a short-term obligation. In the next refactoring phase, collectors will need to use a proscribed data model that eliminates maintenance of mappings in the telemetry cluster.

## Testing

There are a few ways you can test that your usage collector is working properly.

1. The `/api/stats?extended=true&legacy=true` HTTP API in Kibana (added in 6.4.0) will call the fetch methods of all the registered collectors, and add them to a stats object you can see in a browser or in curl. To test that your usage collector has been registered correctly and that it has the model of data you expected it to have, call that HTTP API manually and you should see a key in the `usage` object of the response named after your usage collector's `type` field. This method tests the Metricbeat scenario described above where `callCluster` wraps `callWithRequest`.
2. There is a dev script in x-pack that will give a sample of a payload of data that gets sent up to the telemetry cluster for the sending phase of telemetry. Collected data comes from:
    - The `.monitoring-*` indices, when Monitoring is enabled. Monitoring enhances the sent payload of telemetry by producing usage data potentially of multiple clusters that exist in the monitoring data. Monitoring data is time-based, and the time frame of collection is the last 15 minutes.
    - Live-pulled from ES API endpoints. This will get just real-time stats without context of historical data.
    - The dev script in x-pack can be run on the command-line with:

      ```shell
      cd x-pack
      node scripts/api_debug.js telemetry --host=http://localhost:5601
      ```

      Where `http://localhost:5601` is a Kibana server running in dev mode. If needed, authentication and basePath info can be provided in the command as well.
    - Automatic inclusion of all the stats fetched by collectors is added in [#22336](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/22336) / 6.5.0
3. In Dev mode, Kibana will send telemetry data to a staging telemetry cluster. Assuming you have access to the staging cluster, you can log in and check the latest documents for your new fields.
4. If you catch the network traffic coming from your browser when a telemetry payload is sent, you can examine the request payload body to see the data. This can be tricky as telemetry payloads are sent only once per day per browser. Use incognito mode or clear your localStorage data to force a telemetry payload.

## FAQ

1. **How should I design my data model?**  
   Keep it simple, and keep it to a model that Kibana will be able to understand. In short, that means don't rely on nested fields (arrays with objects). Flat arrays, such as arrays of strings are fine.
2. **If I accumulate an event counter in server memory, which my fetch method returns, won't it reset when the Kibana server restarts?**  
   Yes, but that is not a major concern. A visualization on such info might be a date histogram that gets events-per-second or something, which would be impacted by server restarts, so we'll have to offset the beginning of the time range when we detect that the latest metric is smaller than the earliest metric. That would be a pretty custom visualization, but perhaps future Kibana enhancements will be able to support that.


# UI Metric app

The UI metrics implementation in its current state is not useful. We are working on improving the implementation to enable teams to use the data to visualize and gather information from what is being reported. Please refer to the telemetry team if you are interested in adding ui_metrics to your plugin.

**Until a better implementation is introduced, please defer from adding any new ui metrics.**

## Purpose

The purpose of the UI Metric app is to provide a tool for gathering data on how users interact with
various UIs within Kibana. It's useful for gathering _aggregate_ information, e.g. "How many times
has Button X been clicked" or "How many times has Page Y been viewed".

With some finagling, it's even possible to add more meaning to the info you gather, such as "How many
visualizations were created in less than 5 minutes".

### What it doesn't do

The UI Metric app doesn't gather any metadata around a user interaction, e.g. the user's identity,
the name of a dashboard they've viewed, or the timestamp of the interaction.

## How to use it

To track a user interaction, use the `reportUiStats` method exposed by the plugin `usageCollection` in the public side:

1. Similarly to the server-side usage collection, make sure `usageCollection` is in your optional Plugins:

    ```json
    // plugin/kibana.json
    {
      "id": "...",
      "optionalPlugins": ["usageCollection"]
    }
    ```

2. Register Usage collector in the `setup` function:

    ```ts
    // public/plugin.ts
    class Plugin {
      setup(core, { usageCollection }) {
        if (usageCollection) {
          // Call the following method as many times as you want to report an increase in the count for this event
          usageCollection.reportUiStats(`<AppName>`, usageCollection.METRIC_TYPE.CLICK, `<EventName>`);
        }
      }
    }
    ```

Metric Types:

- `METRIC_TYPE.CLICK` for tracking clicks `trackMetric(METRIC_TYPE.CLICK, 'my_button_clicked');`
- `METRIC_TYPE.LOADED` for a component load or page load `trackMetric(METRIC_TYPE.LOADED', 'my_component_loaded');`
- `METRIC_TYPE.COUNT` for a tracking a misc count `trackMetric(METRIC_TYPE.COUNT', 'my_counter', <count> });`

Call this function whenever you would like to track a user interaction within your app. The function
accepts two arguments, `metricType` and `eventNames`. These should be underscore-delimited strings.
For example, to track the `my_event` metric in the app `my_app` call `trackUiMetric(METRIC_TYPE.*, 'my_event)`.

That's all you need to do!

To track multiple metrics within a single request, provide an array of events, e.g. `trackMetric(METRIC_TYPE.*, ['my_event1', 'my_event2', 'my_event3'])`.

### Disallowed characters

The colon character (`:`) should not be used in app name or event names. Colons play
a special role in how metrics are stored as saved objects.

### Tracking timed interactions

If you want to track how long it takes a user to do something, you'll need to implement the timing
logic yourself. You'll also need to predefine some buckets into which the UI metric can fall.
For example, if you're timing how long it takes to create a visualization, you may decide to
measure interactions that take less than 1 minute, 1-5 minutes, 5-20 minutes, and longer than 20 minutes.
To track these interactions, you'd use the timed length of the interaction to determine whether to
use a `eventName` of  `create_vis_1m`, `create_vis_5m`, `create_vis_20m`, or `create_vis_infinity`.

## How it works

Under the hood, your app and metric type will be stored in a saved object of type `user-metric` and the
ID `ui-metric:my_app:my_metric`. This saved object will have a `count` property which will be incremented
every time the above URI is hit.

These saved objects are automatically consumed by the stats API and surfaced under the
`ui_metric` namespace.

```json
{
  "ui_metric": {
    "my_app": [
      {
        "key": "my_metric",
        "value": 3
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

By storing these metrics and their counts as key-value pairs, we can add more metrics without having
to worry about exceeding the 1000-field soft limit in Elasticsearch.

The only caveat is that it makes it harder to consume in Kibana when analysing each entry in the array separately. In the telemetry team we are working to find a solution to this.

# Routes registered by this plugin

- `/api/ui_metric/report`: Used by `ui_metrics` usage collector instances to report their usage data to the server
- `/api/stats`: Get the metrics and usage ([details](./server/routes/stats/README.md))
