docs/user/dashboard/create-dashboards-and-visualizations.asciidoc, before:

[[create-dashboards-and-visualizations]]
== Create dashboards and visualizations
:keywords: administrator, data view, data views, management, runtime fields, runtime fields in Kibana, scripted fields, field formatters, data fields, index pattern, index patterns
:description: Conceptual and step-by-step procedures for using runtime fields, scripted fields, and field formatters.

Dashboards provide you with the space where you add panels of your data.

[float]
[[dashboard-minimum-requirements]]
=== Minimum requirements

To create dashboards, you must meet the minimum requirements. 

* If you need to set up {kib}, use https://www.elastic.co/cloud/elasticsearch-service/signup?baymax=docs-body&elektra=docs[our free trial].

* Make sure you have {ref}/getting-started-index.html[data indexed into {es}] and a <<data-views, data view>>.

* When the read-only indicator appears, you have insufficient privileges
to create or save dashboards, and the options to create and save dashboards are not visible. For more information,
refer to <<xpack-security-authorization,Granting access to {kib}>>.

[discrete]
[[create-the-dashboard]]
=== Create the dashboard

Begin with an empty dashboard, or open an existing dashboard.

. Open the main menu, then click *Dashboard*.

. On the *Dashboards* page, click *Create dashboard*.

[discrete]
[[create-visualizations]]
=== Create visualizations

. On the dashboard toolbar, click *Create visualization*.

. From the {data-source} dropdown, select the {data-source} you want to visualize.

[discrete]
[[create-tables]]
==== Create tables

Tables are highly customizable and allow you to align text, format values, apply colors, and more.

. From the *Visualization type* dropdown, select *Table*. 

. Drag the fields you want to visualize to the workspace. 

. To sort or hide the columns, click the arrow next to the column heading, then select an option.
+
All columns that belong to the same layer pane group are sorted in the table.

. To change the display options, click a *Metrics* field in the layer pane, then configure the following options:

* *Name* &mdash; Specifies the field display name. 

* *Value format* &mdash; Specifies how the field value displays in the table. 

* *Text alignment* &mdash; Aligns the values in the cell to the *Left*, *Center*, or *Right*.

* *Hide column* &mdash; Hides the column for the field.

* *Summary row* &mdash; Adds a row that displays the summary value. When specified, allows you to enter a *Summary label*.

* *Color by value* &mdash; Applies color to the cell or text values. To change the color, click *Edit*. 

[discrete]
[[create-bar-visualizations]]
==== Create bar visualizations

When you add the *Break-down-by* field, use five or less colors. Use the *Other* category to group the smallest values in a single color.

[discrete]
[[create-goal-and-single-value-visualizations]]
==== Create goal and single value visualizations

[discrete]
[[create-line-and-area-visualizations]]
==== Create line and area visualizations

[discrete]
[[create-magnitude-visualizations]]
==== Create magnitude visualizations

[discrete]
[[create-map-visualizations]]
==== Create map visualizations

[discrete]
[[create-proportion-visualizations]]
==== Create proportion visualizations

[float]
[[save-visualizations]]
==== Save visualizations

Save the visualization and add it to the dashboard. 

. Click *Save and return*, or click *Save to library* if you want to add the visualization to the *Visualize Library*.

. Enter the *Title* and add any applicable <<managing-tags,*Tags*>>.

. Make sure that *Add to Dashboard after saving* is selected.

. Click *Save and return*.

[[tsvb]]

[float]
[[add-text]]
== Add context to dashboard data

To provide context to the dashboard, add text to display important information and instructures, or images that support your dashboard story.

. On the dashboard, click image:images/dashboard_createNewTextButton_7.15.0.png[Create New Text button in dashboard toolbar].

. In the *Markdown* field, enter the GitHub-flavored Markdown, then click *Update*.
+
For information on GitHub Flavored Markdown, click *Help*.

For example, when you enter:

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/markdown_example_1.png[Markdown text with links]

The following text appears:

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/markdown_example_2.png[Panel with markdown link text]

Or when you enter:

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/markdown_example_3.png[Markdown text with image file]

The following image appears:

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/markdown_example_4.png[Panel with markdown image]

[discrete]
[[arrange-panels]]
[[moving-containers]]
[[resizing-containers]]
=== Organize visualizations

Compare the data side-by-side, organize by priority, resize visualizations, and more.

* To move, click and hold the visualization header, then drag to the new location.

* To resize, click the resize control, then drag to the new dimensions.

* To duplicate, open the visualization *Options* menu, then click *Clone panel*.

* To copy, open the visualization *Options* menu, then click *More > Copy to dashboard*.

* To view in fullscreen mode, open the visualization *Options* menu, then click *More > Maximize panel*.

* To separate visualizations with margins, click *Options* in the toolbar, then select *Use margins between panels*.

* To remove, open the visualization *Options* menu, then click *More > Delete from dashboard*.

[discrete]
=== Colors and titles

. In the toolbar, *Options*, then use the following options:

* *Show panel titles* &mdash; Displays the titles in the panels headers.

* *Sync color pallettes across panels* &mdash; Applies the same color palette to all panels on the dashboard.

[float]
[[save-dashboards]]
== Save dashboards

When you've finished making changes to the dashboard, save it.

. In the toolbar, click *Save*.

. On the *Save dashboard* window, enter the *Title* and an optional *Description*.

. Add any applicable <<managing-tags,*Tags*>>. 

. To save the time filter to the dashboard, select *Store time with dashboard*.

. Click *Save*.

. To exit *Edit* mode, click *Switch to view mode*. 

[float]
[[share-the-dashboard]]
== Share dashboards

To share the dashboard with a larger audience, click *Share* in the toolbar. For detailed information about dashboard sharing options, check <<reporting-getting-started,Reporting>>.

[float]
[[import-dashboards]]
== Export dashboards

To automate {kib}, you can export dashboards as NDJSON using the <<saved-objects-api-export, Export objects API>>.

Commit message:

Goal and single value visualizations

docs/user/dashboard/create-dashboards-and-visualizations.asciidoc, after:

[[create-dashboards-and-visualizations]]
== Create dashboards and visualizations
:keywords: administrator, data view, data views, management, runtime fields, runtime fields in Kibana, scripted fields, field formatters, data fields, index pattern, index patterns
:description: Conceptual and step-by-step procedures for using runtime fields, scripted fields, and field formatters.

Dashboards provide you with the space where you add panels of your data.

[float]
[[dashboard-minimum-requirements]]
=== Minimum requirements

To create dashboards, you must meet the minimum requirements. 

* If you need to set up {kib}, use https://www.elastic.co/cloud/elasticsearch-service/signup?baymax=docs-body&elektra=docs[our free trial].

* Make sure you have {ref}/getting-started-index.html[data indexed into {es}] and a <<data-views, data view>>.

* When the read-only indicator appears, you have insufficient privileges
to create or save dashboards, and the options to create and save dashboards are not visible. For more information,
refer to <<xpack-security-authorization,Granting access to {kib}>>.

[discrete]
[[create-the-dashboard]]
=== Create the dashboard

Begin with an empty dashboard, or open an existing dashboard.

. Open the main menu, then click *Dashboard*.

. On the *Dashboards* page, click *Create dashboard*.

[discrete]
[[create-visualizations]]
=== Create visualizations

. On the dashboard toolbar, click *Create visualization*.

. From the {data-source} dropdown, select the {data-source} you want to visualize.

[discrete]
[[create-tables]]
==== Create tables

Tables are highly customizable and allow you to align text, format values, apply colors, and more.

. From the *Visualization type* dropdown, select *Table*. 

. Drag the fields you want to visualize to the workspace. 

. To sort or hide the columns, click the arrow next to the column heading, then select an option.
+
All columns that belong to the same layer pane group are sorted in the table.

. To change the display options, click a *Metrics* field in the layer pane, then configure the following options:

* *Name* &mdash; Specifies the field display name. 

* *Value format* &mdash; Specifies how the field value displays in the table. 

* *Text alignment* &mdash; Aligns the values in the cell to the *Left*, *Center*, or *Right*.

* *Hide column* &mdash; Hides the column for the field.

* *Summary row* &mdash; Adds a row that displays the summary value. When specified, allows you to enter a *Summary label*.

* *Color by value* &mdash; Applies color to the cell or text values. To change the color, click *Edit*. 

[discrete]
[[create-bar-visualizations]]
==== Create bar visualizations

When you add the *Break-down-by* field, use five or less colors. Use the *Other* category to group the smallest values in a single color.

[discrete]
[[create-goal-and-single-value-visualizations]]
==== Create goal and single value visualizations

To make metric visualizations as clear as possible, configure all of the components. 

. To display additional information, add subtitles. For example, add subtitles to describe any applied filters.

. To change the metric visualization format, increase or decrease *Layout columns*. 
+
When you display metric visualizations in columns, you can easily identify differences between the values. 
+
When you display metric visualizations in row, you increase the readability. 

[discrete]
[[create-line-and-area-visualizations]]
==== Create line and area visualizations

[discrete]
[[create-magnitude-visualizations]]
==== Create magnitude visualizations

[discrete]
[[create-map-visualizations]]
==== Create map visualizations

[discrete]
[[create-proportion-visualizations]]
==== Create proportion visualizations

[float]
[[save-visualizations]]
==== Save visualizations

Save the visualization and add it to the dashboard. 

. Click *Save and return*, or click *Save to library* if you want to add the visualization to the *Visualize Library*.

. Enter the *Title* and add any applicable <<managing-tags,*Tags*>>.

. Make sure that *Add to Dashboard after saving* is selected.

. Click *Save and return*.

[[tsvb]]

[float]
[[add-text]]
== Add context to dashboard data

To provide context to the dashboard, add text to display important information and instructures, or images that support your dashboard story.

. On the dashboard, click image:images/dashboard_createNewTextButton_7.15.0.png[Create New Text button in dashboard toolbar].

. In the *Markdown* field, enter the GitHub-flavored Markdown, then click *Update*.
+
For information on GitHub Flavored Markdown, click *Help*.

For example, when you enter:

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/markdown_example_1.png[Markdown text with links]

The following text appears:

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/markdown_example_2.png[Panel with markdown link text]

Or when you enter:

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/markdown_example_3.png[Markdown text with image file]

The following image appears:

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/markdown_example_4.png[Panel with markdown image]

[discrete]
[[arrange-panels]]
[[moving-containers]]
[[resizing-containers]]
=== Organize visualizations

Compare the data side-by-side, organize by priority, resize visualizations, and more.

* To move, click and hold the visualization header, then drag to the new location.

* To resize, click the resize control, then drag to the new dimensions.

* To duplicate, open the visualization *Options* menu, then click *Clone panel*.

* To copy, open the visualization *Options* menu, then click *More > Copy to dashboard*.

* To view in fullscreen mode, open the visualization *Options* menu, then click *More > Maximize panel*.

* To separate visualizations with margins, click *Options* in the toolbar, then select *Use margins between panels*.

* To remove, open the visualization *Options* menu, then click *More > Delete from dashboard*.

[discrete]
=== Colors and titles

. In the toolbar, *Options*, then use the following options:

* *Show panel titles* &mdash; Displays the titles in the panels headers.

* *Sync color pallettes across panels* &mdash; Applies the same color palette to all panels on the dashboard.

[float]
[[save-dashboards]]
== Save dashboards

When you've finished making changes to the dashboard, save it.

. In the toolbar, click *Save*.

. On the *Save dashboard* window, enter the *Title* and an optional *Description*.

. Add any applicable <<managing-tags,*Tags*>>. 

. To save the time filter to the dashboard, select *Store time with dashboard*.

. Click *Save*.

. To exit *Edit* mode, click *Switch to view mode*. 

[float]
[[share-the-dashboard]]
== Share dashboards

To share the dashboard with a larger audience, click *Share* in the toolbar. For detailed information about dashboard sharing options, check <<reporting-getting-started,Reporting>>.

[float]
[[import-dashboards]]
== Export dashboards

To automate {kib}, you can export dashboards as NDJSON using the <<saved-objects-api-export, Export objects API>>.
