docs/user/dashboard/tsvb.asciidoc, before:

[[tsvb]]
=== TSVB

*TSVB* is a set of visualization types that you configure and display on dashboards.

With *TSVB*, you can:

* Combine an infinite number of <<aggregation-reference,aggregations>> to display your data.
* Annotate time series data with timestamped events from an {es} index.
* View the data in several types of visualizations, including charts, data tables, and markdown panels.
* Display multiple <<data-views, data views>> in each visualization.
* Use custom functions and some math on aggregations.
* Customize the data with labels and colors.

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/tsvb-screenshot.png[TSVB overview]

[float]
[[tsvb-data-view-mode]]
==== Open and set up TSVB

Open *TSVB*, then configure the required settings. You can create *TSVB* visualizations with only {data-sources}, or {es} index strings. 

When you use only {data-sources}, you are able to:

* Create visualizations with runtime fields

* Add URL drilldowns

* Add interactive filters for time series visualizations

* Improve performance

[[tsvb-index-pattern-mode]]

IMPORTANT: Creating *TSVB* visualizations with an {es} index string is deprecated and will be removed in a future release. By default, you create *TSVB* visualizations with only {data-sources}. To use an {es} index string, contact your administrator, or go to <<advanced-options, Advanced Settings>> and set `metrics:allowStringIndices` to `true`.

. On the dashboard, click *All types*, then select *TSVB*.

. In *TSVB*, click *Panel options*, then specify the *Data* settings.

. Open the *Data view mode* options next to the *Data view* dropdown.

. Select *Use only {kib} {data-sources}*.

. From the *Data view* drodpown, select the {data-source}, then select the *Time field* and *Interval*.

. Select a *Drop last bucket* option. 
+
By default, *TSVB* drops the last bucket because the time filter intersects the time range of the last bucket. To view the partial data, select *No*.

. To view a filtered set of documents, enter <<kuery-query, KQL filters>> in the *Panel filter* field.

[float]
[[tsvb-function-reference]]
==== Configure the series

Each *TSVB* visualization shares the same options to create a *Series*. Each series can be thought of as a separate {es} aggregation. 
The *Options* control the styling and {es} options, and are inherited from *Panel options*.
When you have separate options for each series, you can compare different {es} indices, and view two time ranges from the same index. 

To configure the value of each series, select the function, then configure the function inputs. Only the last function is displayed.

. From the *Aggregation* dropdown, select the function for the series. *TSVB* provides you with shortcuts for some frequently-used functions:
+
*Filter Ratio*::
  Returns a percent value by calculating a metric on two sets of documents. 
  For example, calculate the error rate as a percentage of the overall events over time.
+
*Counter Rate*::
  Used when dealing with monotonically increasing counters. Shortcut for *Max*, *Derivative*, and *Positive Only*.
+
*Positive Only*::
  Removes any negative values from the results, which can be used as a post-processing step
  after a derivative.
+
*Series Agg*::
  Applies a function to all of the *Group by* series to reduce the values to a single number.
  This function must always be the last metric in the series.
  For example, if the *Time Series* visualization shows 10 series, the sum *Series Agg* calculates
  the sum of all 10 bars and outputs a single Y value per X value. This is often confused
  with the overall sum function, which outputs a single Y value per unique series.
+
*Math*::
  For each series, apply simple and advanced calculations. Only use *Math* for the last function in a series.

. To display each group separately, select one of the following options from the *Group by* dropdown:

* *Filters* &mdash; Groups the data into the specified filters. To differentiate the groups, assign a color to each filter.

* *Terms* &mdash; Displays the top values of the field. The color is only configurable in the *Time Series* chart. To configure, click *Options*, then select an option from the *Split color theme* dropdown.

. Click *Options*, then configure the inputs for the function. For example, to use a different field format, make a selection from the *Data formatter* dropdown.

[float]
[[configure-the-visualizations]]
==== TSVB visualization options

The configuration options differ for each *TSVB* visualization.

[float]
[[tsvb-time-series]]
===== Time Series

By default, the y-axis displays the full range of data, including zero. To automatically scale the y-axis from
the minimum to maximum values of the data, click *Data > Options > Fill*, then enter `0` in the *Fill* field.
You can add annotations to the x-axis based on timestamped documents in a separate {es} index.

[float]
[[all-chart-types-except-time-series]]
===== All chart types except Time Series

The *Data timerange mode* dropdown in *Panel options* controls the timespan that *TSVB* uses to match documents.
*Last value* is unable to match all documents, only the specific interval. *Entire timerange* matches all documents specified in the time filter.

[float]
[[metric-topn-gauge]]
===== Metric, Top N, and Gauge

*Color rules* in *Panel options* contains conditional coloring based on the values. 

[float]
[[topn-table]]
===== Top N and Table

When you click a series, *TSVB* applies a filter based on the series name. 
To change this behavior, click *Panel options*, then specify a URL in the *Item URL* field, which opens a URL instead of applying a filter on click. 

[float]
[[tsvb-markdown]]
===== Markdown

The *Markdown* visualization supports Markdown with Handlebar (mustache) syntax to insert dynamic data, and supports custom CSS.

[float]
[[save-the-tsvb-panel]]
==== Save and add the panel

Save the panel to the *Visualize Library* and add it to the dashboard, or add it to the dashboard without saving.

To save the panel to the *Visualize Library*:

. Click *Save to library*.

. Enter the *Title* and add any applicable <<managing-tags,*Tags*>>.

. Make sure that *Add to Dashboard after saving* is selected.

. Click *Save and return*.

To save the panel to the dashboard:

. Click *Save and return*.

. Add an optional title to the panel.

.. In the panel header, click *No Title*.

.. On the *Customize panel* window, select *Show panel title*.

.. Enter the *Panel title*, then click *Save*.

[float]
[[tsvb-faq]]
==== Frequently asked questions

For answers to frequently asked *TSVB* question, review the following. 

[discrete]
[[how-do-i-create-dashboard-drilldowns]]
.*How do I create dashboard drilldowns for Top N and Table visualizations?*
[%collapsible]
====

You can create dashboard drilldowns that include the specified time range for *Top N* and *Table* visualizations.

. Open the dashboard that you want to link to, then copy the URL.

. Open the dashboard with the *Top N* and *Table* visualization panel, then click *Edit* in the toolbar. 

. Open the *Top N* or *Table* panel menu, then select *Edit visualization*.

. Click *Panel options*. 

. In the *Item URL* field, enter the URL. 
+
For example `dashboards#/view/f193ca90-c9f4-11eb-b038-dd3270053a27`.

. Click *Save and return*.

. In the toolbar, click *Save as*, then make sure *Store time with dashboard* is deselected. 
====

[discrete]
[[how-do-i-base-drilldowns-on-data]]
.*How do I base drilldown URLs on my data?*
[%collapsible]
====

You can build drilldown URLs dynamically with your visualization data.

Do this by adding the `{{key}}` placeholder to your URL

For example `https://example.org/{{key}}`

This instructs TSVB to substitute the value from your visualization wherever it sees `{{key}}`.

If your data contain reserved or invalid URL characters such as "#" or "&", you should apply a transform to URL-encode the key like this `{{encodeURIComponent key}}`. If you are dynamically constructing a drilldown to another location in Kibana (for example, clicking a table row takes to you a value-scoped saved search), you will likely want to Rison-encode your key as it may contain invalid Rison characters. (https://github.com/Nanonid/rison#rison---compact-data-in-uris[Rison] is the serialization format many parts of Kibana use to store information in their URL.)

For example: `discover#/view/0ac50180-82d9-11ec-9f4a-55de56b00cc0?_a=(filters:!((query:(match_phrase:(foo.keyword:{{rison key}})))))`

If both conditions apply, you can cover all cases by applying both transforms: `{{encodeURIComponent (rison key)}}`.

Technical note: TSVB uses https://handlebarsjs.com/[Handlebars] to perform these interpolations. `rison` and `encodeURIComponent` are custom Handlebars helpers provided by Kibana.

====

[discrete]
[[why-is-my-tsvb-visualiztion-missing-data]]
.*Why is my TSVB visualization missing data?*
[%collapsible]
====

It depends, but most often there are two causes:

* For *Time series* visualizations with a derivative function, the time interval can be too small. Derivatives require sequential values. 

* For all other *TSVB* visualizations, the cause is probably the *Data timerange mode*, which is controlled by *Panel options > Data timerange mode > Entire time range*.
By default, *TSVB* displays the last whole bucket. For example, if the time filter is set to *Last 24 hours*, and the
current time is 9:41, *TSVB* displays only the last 10 minutes &mdash; from 9:30 to 9:40.
====

[discrete]
[[how-do-i-calculate-the-difference-between-two-data-series]]
.*How do I calculate the difference between two data series?*
[%collapsible]
====

Performing math across data series is unsupported in *TSVB*. To calculate the difference between two data series, use <<timelion, *Timelion*>> or <<vega, *Vega*>>.
====

[discrete]
[[how-do-i-compare-the-current-versus-previous-month]]
.*How do I compare the current versus previous month?*
[%collapsible]
====

*TSVB* can display two series with time offsets, but it can't perform math across series. To add a time offset:

. Click *Clone Series*, then choose a color for the new series.
+
[role="screenshot"]
image::images/tsvb_clone_series.png[Clone Series action]
  
. Click *Options*, then enter the offset value in the *Offset series time by* field.
====

[discrete]
[[how-do-i-calculate-a-month-over-month-change]]
.*How do I calculate a month over month change?*
[%collapsible]
====

The ability to calculate a month over month change is not fully supported in *TSVB*, but there is a special case that is supported _if_ the
time filter is set to 3 months or more _and_ the *Interval* is `1m`. Use the *Derivative* to get the absolute monthly change. To convert to a percent, 
add the *Math* function with the `params.current / (params.current - params.derivative)` formula, then select *Percent* from the *Data Formatter* dropdown.

For other types of month over month calculations, use <<timelion, *Timelion*>> or <<vega, *Vega*>>.
====

[discrete]
[[calculate-duration-start-end]]
.*How do I calculate the duration between the start and end of an event?*
[%collapsible]
====

Calculating the duration between the start and end of an event is unsupported in *TSVB* because *TSVB* requires correlation between different time periods. 
*TSVB* requires that the duration is pre-calculated.
====

Commit message:

[DOCS] Adds the TSVB to Lens docs (#129129) (#129498)
* [DOCS] Adds the TSVB to Lens docs

* Review comments

Co-authored-by: Kibana Machine <42973632+kibanamachine@users.noreply.github.com>
(cherry picked from commit 1b683cdd28fb02b2c2407b51a36636a0cb6f43c0)

Co-authored-by: Kaarina Tungseth <kaarina.tungseth@elastic.co>

docs/user/dashboard/tsvb.asciidoc, after:

[[tsvb]]
=== TSVB

*TSVB* is a set of visualization types that you configure and display on dashboards.

With *TSVB*, you can:

* Combine an infinite number of <<aggregation-reference,aggregations>> to display your data.
* Annotate time series data with timestamped events from an {es} index.
* View the data in several types of visualizations, including charts, data tables, and markdown panels.
* Display multiple <<data-views, data views>> in each visualization.
* Use custom functions and some math on aggregations.
* Customize the data with labels and colors.

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/tsvb-screenshot.png[TSVB overview]

[float]
[[tsvb-data-view-mode]]
==== Open and set up TSVB

Open *TSVB*, then configure the required settings. You can create *TSVB* visualizations with only {data-sources}, or {es} index strings. 

When you use only {data-sources}, you are able to:

* Create visualizations with runtime fields

* Add URL drilldowns

* Add interactive filters for time series visualizations

* Improve performance

[[tsvb-index-pattern-mode]]

IMPORTANT: Creating *TSVB* visualizations with an {es} index string is deprecated and will be removed in a future release. By default, you create *TSVB* visualizations with only {data-sources}. To use an {es} index string, contact your administrator, or go to <<advanced-options, Advanced Settings>> and set `metrics:allowStringIndices` to `true`.

. On the dashboard, click *Select type*, then select *TSVB*.

. In *TSVB*, click *Panel options*, then specify the *Data* settings.

. Open the *Data view mode* options next to the *Data view* dropdown.

. Select *Use only {kib} {data-sources}*.

. From the *Data view* drodpown, select the {data-source}, then select the *Time field* and *Interval*.

. Select a *Drop last bucket* option. 
+
By default, *TSVB* drops the last bucket because the time filter intersects the time range of the last bucket. To view the partial data, select *No*.

. To view a filtered set of documents, enter <<kuery-query, KQL filters>> in the *Panel filter* field.

[float]
[[tsvb-function-reference]]
==== Configure the series

Each *TSVB* visualization shares the same options to create a *Series*. Each series can be thought of as a separate {es} aggregation. 
The *Options* control the styling and {es} options, and are inherited from *Panel options*.
When you have separate options for each series, you can compare different {es} indices, and view two time ranges from the same index. 

To configure the value of each series, select the function, then configure the function inputs. Only the last function is displayed.

. From the *Aggregation* dropdown, select the function for the series. *TSVB* provides you with shortcuts for some frequently-used functions:
+
*Filter Ratio*::
  Returns a percent value by calculating a metric on two sets of documents. 
  For example, calculate the error rate as a percentage of the overall events over time.
+
*Counter Rate*::
  Used when dealing with monotonically increasing counters. Shortcut for *Max*, *Derivative*, and *Positive Only*.
+
*Positive Only*::
  Removes any negative values from the results, which can be used as a post-processing step
  after a derivative.
+
*Series Agg*::
  Applies a function to all of the *Group by* series to reduce the values to a single number.
  This function must always be the last metric in the series.
  For example, if the *Time Series* visualization shows 10 series, the sum *Series Agg* calculates
  the sum of all 10 bars and outputs a single Y value per X value. This is often confused
  with the overall sum function, which outputs a single Y value per unique series.
+
*Math*::
  For each series, apply simple and advanced calculations. Only use *Math* for the last function in a series.

. To display each group separately, select one of the following options from the *Group by* dropdown:

* *Filters* &mdash; Groups the data into the specified filters. To differentiate the groups, assign a color to each filter.

* *Terms* &mdash; Displays the top values of the field. The color is only configurable in the *Time Series* chart. To configure, click *Options*, then select an option from the *Split color theme* dropdown.

. Click *Options*, then configure the inputs for the function. For example, to use a different field format, make a selection from the *Data formatter* dropdown.

[float]
[[configure-the-visualizations]]
==== TSVB visualization options

The configuration options differ for each *TSVB* visualization.

[float]
[[tsvb-time-series]]
===== Time Series

By default, the y-axis displays the full range of data, including zero. To automatically scale the y-axis from
the minimum to maximum values of the data, click *Data > Options > Fill*, then enter `0` in the *Fill* field.
You can add annotations to the x-axis based on timestamped documents in a separate {es} index.

[float]
[[all-chart-types-except-time-series]]
===== All chart types except Time Series

The *Data timerange mode* dropdown in *Panel options* controls the timespan that *TSVB* uses to match documents.
*Last value* is unable to match all documents, only the specific interval. *Entire timerange* matches all documents specified in the time filter.

[float]
[[metric-topn-gauge]]
===== Metric, Top N, and Gauge

*Color rules* in *Panel options* contains conditional coloring based on the values. 

[float]
[[topn-table]]
===== Top N and Table

When you click a series, *TSVB* applies a filter based on the series name. 
To change this behavior, click *Panel options*, then specify a URL in the *Item URL* field, which opens a URL instead of applying a filter on click. 

[float]
[[tsvb-markdown]]
===== Markdown

The *Markdown* visualization supports Markdown with Handlebar (mustache) syntax to insert dynamic data, and supports custom CSS.

[float]
[[edit-visualizations-in-lens]]
==== Edit visualizations in Lens

Open and edit your Time Series *TSVB* visualizations in *Lens*, which is the drag-and-drop visualization editor that provides you with additional visualization types, reference lines, and more.

To get started, click *Edit visualization in Lens* in the toolbar.

For more information, check out <<lens,Create visualizations with Lens>>.

[float]
[[view-data-and-requests-tsvb]]
==== View the visualization data requests

View the requests that collect the visualization data.

. In the toolbar, click *Inspect*.

. From the *Request* dropdown, select the series you want to view.

[float]
[[save-the-tsvb-panel]]
==== Save and add the panel

Save the panel to the *Visualize Library* and add it to the dashboard, or add it to the dashboard without saving.

To save the panel to the *Visualize Library*:

. Click *Save to library*.

. Enter the *Title* and add any applicable <<managing-tags,*Tags*>>.

. Make sure that *Add to Dashboard after saving* is selected.

. Click *Save and return*.

To save the panel to the dashboard:

. Click *Save and return*.

. Add an optional title to the panel.

.. In the panel header, click *No Title*.

.. On the *Customize panel* window, select *Show panel title*.

.. Enter the *Panel title*, then click *Save*.

[float]
[[tsvb-faq]]
==== Frequently asked questions

For answers to frequently asked *TSVB* question, review the following. 

[discrete]
[[how-do-i-create-dashboard-drilldowns]]
.*How do I create dashboard drilldowns for Top N and Table visualizations?*
[%collapsible]
====

You can create dashboard drilldowns that include the specified time range for *Top N* and *Table* visualizations.

. Open the dashboard that you want to link to, then copy the URL.

. Open the dashboard with the *Top N* and *Table* visualization panel, then click *Edit* in the toolbar. 

. Open the *Top N* or *Table* panel menu, then select *Edit visualization*.

. Click *Panel options*. 

. In the *Item URL* field, enter the URL. 
+
For example `dashboards#/view/f193ca90-c9f4-11eb-b038-dd3270053a27`.

. Click *Save and return*.

. In the toolbar, click *Save as*, then make sure *Store time with dashboard* is deselected. 
====

[discrete]
[[how-do-i-base-drilldowns-on-data]]
.*How do I base drilldown URLs on my data?*
[%collapsible]
====

You can build drilldown URLs dynamically with your visualization data.

Do this by adding the `{{key}}` placeholder to your URL

For example `https://example.org/{{key}}`

This instructs TSVB to substitute the value from your visualization wherever it sees `{{key}}`.

If your data contain reserved or invalid URL characters such as "#" or "&", you should apply a transform to URL-encode the key like this `{{encodeURIComponent key}}`. If you are dynamically constructing a drilldown to another location in Kibana (for example, clicking a table row takes to you a value-scoped saved search), you will likely want to Rison-encode your key as it may contain invalid Rison characters. (https://github.com/Nanonid/rison#rison---compact-data-in-uris[Rison] is the serialization format many parts of Kibana use to store information in their URL.)

For example: `discover#/view/0ac50180-82d9-11ec-9f4a-55de56b00cc0?_a=(filters:!((query:(match_phrase:(foo.keyword:{{rison key}})))))`

If both conditions apply, you can cover all cases by applying both transforms: `{{encodeURIComponent (rison key)}}`.

Technical note: TSVB uses https://handlebarsjs.com/[Handlebars] to perform these interpolations. `rison` and `encodeURIComponent` are custom Handlebars helpers provided by Kibana.

====

[discrete]
[[why-is-my-tsvb-visualiztion-missing-data]]
.*Why is my TSVB visualization missing data?*
[%collapsible]
====

It depends, but most often there are two causes:

* For *Time series* visualizations with a derivative function, the time interval can be too small. Derivatives require sequential values. 

* For all other *TSVB* visualizations, the cause is probably the *Data timerange mode*, which is controlled by *Panel options > Data timerange mode > Entire time range*.
By default, *TSVB* displays the last whole bucket. For example, if the time filter is set to *Last 24 hours*, and the
current time is 9:41, *TSVB* displays only the last 10 minutes &mdash; from 9:30 to 9:40.
====

[discrete]
[[how-do-i-calculate-the-difference-between-two-data-series]]
.*How do I calculate the difference between two data series?*
[%collapsible]
====

Performing math across data series is unsupported in *TSVB*. To calculate the difference between two data series, use <<timelion, *Timelion*>> or <<vega, *Vega*>>.
====

[discrete]
[[how-do-i-compare-the-current-versus-previous-month]]
.*How do I compare the current versus previous month?*
[%collapsible]
====

*TSVB* can display two series with time offsets, but it can't perform math across series. To add a time offset:

. Click *Clone Series*, then choose a color for the new series.
+
[role="screenshot"]
image::images/tsvb_clone_series.png[Clone Series action]
  
. Click *Options*, then enter the offset value in the *Offset series time by* field.
====

[discrete]
[[how-do-i-calculate-a-month-over-month-change]]
.*How do I calculate a month over month change?*
[%collapsible]
====

The ability to calculate a month over month change is not fully supported in *TSVB*, but there is a special case that is supported _if_ the
time filter is set to 3 months or more _and_ the *Interval* is `1m`. Use the *Derivative* to get the absolute monthly change. To convert to a percent, 
add the *Math* function with the `params.current / (params.current - params.derivative)` formula, then select *Percent* from the *Data Formatter* dropdown.

For other types of month over month calculations, use <<timelion, *Timelion*>> or <<vega, *Vega*>>.
====

[discrete]
[[calculate-duration-start-end]]
.*How do I calculate the duration between the start and end of an event?*
[%collapsible]
====

Calculating the duration between the start and end of an event is unsupported in *TSVB* because *TSVB* requires correlation between different time periods. 
*TSVB* requires that the duration is pre-calculated.
====
