docs/maps/map-settings.asciidoc, before:

[role="xpack"]
[[maps-settings]]
== Configure map settings

Maps offers settings that let you configure how a map is displayed.
To access these settings, click *Map settings* in the application toolbar.

[float]
[[maps-settings-display]]
=== Display
*Background color*::
Set the map background color.

*Show scale*::
When enabled, display the map scale.

[float]
[[maps-settings-navigation]]
=== Navigation

*Auto fit map to bounds*::
When enabled, the map will automatically pan and zoom to show the filtered data bounds.

*Zoom range*::
Constrain the map to the defined zoom range.

*Initial map location*::
Configure the initial map center and zoom.
* *Map location at save*: Use the map center and zoom from the map position at the time of the latest save.
* *Auto fit map to bounds*: Set the initial map location to show the filtered data bounds.
* *Fixed location*: Lock the map center and zoom to fixed values.
* *Browser location*: Set the initial map center to the browser location.

[float]
[[maps-settings-spatial-filters]]
=== Spatial filters

Use spatial filter settings to configure how <<maps-spatial-filters, spatial filters>> are displayed.

image::maps/images/spatial_filters.png[]

*Show spatial filters on map*::
Clear the checkbox so <<maps-spatial-filters, spatial filters>> do not appear on the map.

*Opacity*::
Set the opacity of spatial filters.

*Fill color*::
Set the fill color of spatial filters.

*Border color*::
Set the border color of spatial filters.

Commit message:

[DOCS] [Maps] Add documentation for custom icons (#129530)
(cherry picked from commit f32faab84d1c60c045e8ad1d638105de7440302f)

docs/maps/map-settings.asciidoc, after:

[role="xpack"]
[[maps-settings]]
== Configure map settings

Maps offers settings that let you configure how a map is displayed.
To access these settings, click *Map settings* in the application toolbar.

[float]
[[maps-settings-custom-icons]]
=== Custom icons

Add, edit, or delete custom icons for the map. Icons added to the map can be used for <<point-style-properties, styling Point features>>.

[float]
[[maps-settings-display]]
=== Display
*Background color*::
Set the map background color.

*Show scale*::
When enabled, display the map scale.

[float]
[[maps-settings-navigation]]
=== Navigation

*Auto fit map to bounds*::
When enabled, the map will automatically pan and zoom to show the filtered data bounds.

*Zoom range*::
Constrain the map to the defined zoom range.

*Initial map location*::
Configure the initial map center and zoom.
* *Map location at save*: Use the map center and zoom from the map position at the time of the latest save.
* *Auto fit map to bounds*: Set the initial map location to show the filtered data bounds.
* *Fixed location*: Lock the map center and zoom to fixed values.
* *Browser location*: Set the initial map center to the browser location.

[float]
[[maps-settings-spatial-filters]]
=== Spatial filters

Use spatial filter settings to configure how <<maps-spatial-filters, spatial filters>> are displayed.

image::maps/images/spatial_filters.png[]

*Show spatial filters on map*::
Clear the checkbox so <<maps-spatial-filters, spatial filters>> do not appear on the map.

*Opacity*::
Set the opacity of spatial filters.

*Fill color*::
Set the fill color of spatial filters.

*Border color*::
Set the border color of spatial filters.
