docs/maps/maps-aggregations.asciidoc, before:

[role="xpack"]
[[maps-aggregations]]
== Plot big data without plotting too much data

Use {ref}/search-aggregations.html[aggregations] to plot large data sets without overwhemling your network or your browser.

Aggregations group your documents into buckets and calculate metrics for each bucket.
Your documents stay in Elasticsearch and only the metrics for each group are returned to your computer.

Use aggregated layers with document layers to show aggregated views when the map shows larger
amounts of the globe and individual documents when the map shows smaller regions.

In the following example, the Grid aggregation layer is only visible when the map is at zoom levels 0 through 5. The Documents layer is only visible when the map is at zoom levels 4 through 24.
See the <<maps-add-elasticsearch-layer, Getting started>> tutorial for more details on configuring the layers.

[role="screenshot"]
image::maps/images/grid_to_docs.gif[]

[role="xpack"]
[[maps-grid-aggregation]]
=== Grid aggregation

The *Grid aggregation* source uses {ref}/search-aggregations-bucket-geotilegrid-aggregation.html[GeoTile grid aggregation] to group your documents into grids. You can calculate metrics for each gridded cell.

You can symbolize grid aggregation metrics as:

*Points*:: Creates a <<vector-layer, vector layer>> with a point for each gridded cell.
The point location is the weighted centroid for all geo-points in the gridded cell.

*Grid rectangles*:: Creates a <<vector-layer, vector layer>> with a bounding box polygon for each gridded cell.

*Heat map*:: Creates a <<heatmap-layer, heat map layer>> that clusters the weighted centroids for each gridded cell.


[role="xpack"]
[[maps-top-hits-aggregation]]
=== Top hits per entity

You can display the most relevant documents per entity, for example, the most recent GPS tracks per flight.
To get this data, {es} first groups your data using a {ref}/search-aggregations-bucket-terms-aggregation.html[terms aggregation],
then accumulates the most relevant documents based on sort order for each entry using a {ref}/search-aggregations-metrics-top-hits-aggregation.html[top hits metric aggregation].

Top hits per entity is available for <<vector-layer, vector layers>> with *Documents* source.
To enable top hits:

. In *Sorting*, select the *Show documents per entity* checkbox.
. Set *Entity* to the field that identifies entities in your documents.
This field will be used in the terms aggregation to group your documents into entity buckets.
. Set *Documents per entity* to configure the maximum number of documents accumulated per entity.

[role="screenshot"]
image::maps/images/top_hits.png[]

[role="xpack"]
[[point-to-point]]
=== Point to point

A point-to-point connection plots aggregated data paths between the source and the destination.
Thicker, darker lines symbolize more connections between a source and destination, and thinner, lighter lines symbolize less connections.

Point to point uses an {es} {ref}/search-aggregations-bucket-terms-aggregation.html[terms aggregation] to group your documents by destination.
Then, a nested {ref}/search-aggregations-bucket-geotilegrid-aggregation.html[GeoTile grid aggregation] groups sources for each destination into grids.
A line connects each source grid centroid to each destination.

image::maps/images/point_to_point.png[]

[role="xpack"]
[[terms-join]]
=== Term join

Use term joins to augment vector features with properties for <<maps-vector-style-data-driven, data driven styling>> and richer tooltip content.

Term joins are available for <<vector-layer, vector layers>> with the following sources:

* Configured GeoJSON
* Documents
* EMS Boundaries

==== Example term join

The <<maps-add-choropleth-layer, choropleth layer example>> uses a term join to shade world countries by web log traffic.
Darker shades symbolize countries with more web log traffic, and lighter shades symbolize countries with less traffic.

[role="screenshot"]
image::maps/images/gs_add_cloropeth_layer.png[]

===== How a term join works

A term join uses a shared key to combine vector features, the left source, with the results of an {es} terms aggregation, the right source.

The cloropeth example uses the shared key, https://wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166-1_alpha-2[ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code], to join world countries and web log traffic.
ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code is an international standard that identifies countries by a two-letter country code.
For example, *Sweden* has an ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code of *SE*.

[role="screenshot"]
image::maps/images/terms_join_shared_key_config.png[]

===== Left source

The left source for the term join is the https://www.elastic.co/elastic-maps-service[Elastic Maps Service (EMS)] World Countries. Vector features for this source are provided by EMS. You can also use your own vector features.

In the following example, *iso2* property defines the shared key for the left source.
--------------------------------------------------
{
  geometry: {
    coordinates: [...],
    type: "Polygon"
  },
  properties: {
    name: "Sweden",
    iso2: "SE"
  },
  type: "Feature"
}
--------------------------------------------------

===== Right source

The right source uses the Kibana sample data set "Sample web logs".
In this data set, the *geo.src* field contains the ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code of the country of origin.

A {ref}/search-aggregations-bucket-terms-aggregation.html[terms aggregation] groups the sample web log documents by *geo.src* and calculates metrics for each term.

The METRICS configuration defines two metric aggregations:

* The count of all documents in the terms bucket.
* The average of the field "bytes" for all documents in the terms bucket.

[role="screenshot"]
image::maps/images/terms_join_metric_config.png[]

The right source does not provide individual documents, but instead provides the metrics from a terms aggregation.
The metrics are calculated from the following sample web logs documents.
--------------------------------------------------
{
  bytes: 1837,
  geo: {
    src: "SE"
  },
  timestamp: "Feb 28, 2019 @ 07:23:08.754"
},
{
  bytes: 971,
  geo: {
    src: "SE"
  },
  timestamp: "Feb 27, 2019 @ 08:10:45.205"
},
{
  bytes: 4277,
  geo: {
    src: "SE"
  },
  timestamp: "Feb 21, 2019 @ 05:24:33.945"
},
{
  bytes: 5624,
  geo: {
    src: "SE"
  },
  timestamp: "Feb 21, 2019 @ 04:57:05.921"
}
--------------------------------------------------

The terms aggregation creates a bucket for each unique *geo.src* value. Metrics are calucated for all documents in a bucket.

The following shows an example terms aggregation response. Note the *key* property, which defines the shared key for the right source.
--------------------------------------------------
{
  aggregations: {
    join: {
      buckets: [
        {
          doc_count: 4,
          key: "SE",
          avg_of_bytes: {
            value: 3177.25
          }
        },
        ...
      ]
    }
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------

==== Augmenting the left source with metrics from the right source

The join adds metrics for each terms aggregation bucket to the world country feature with the corresponding ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code. Features that do not have a corresponding terms aggregation bucket are not visible on the map.

The world country features now have two additional properties:

* Count of web log traffic originating from the world country
* Average bytes of web log traffic originating from the world country

The cloropeth example uses the count of web log traffic to symbolize countries by web log traffic.

Commit message:

[Maps] get max_result_window and max_inner_result_window from index settings (#53500) (#53902)
* [Maps] pull ES_SIZE_LIMIT and top hits limit from index settings

* get fetch working

* get min values from indicies response

* use indexSettings.maxResultWindow in documents request size

* use max_inner_result_window to define top hits max

* update jest test

* update docs

* more docs changes for top hits

* fix line spacing

* Update docs/maps/maps-aggregations.asciidoc

Co-Authored-By: gchaps <33642766+gchaps@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update docs/maps/vector-layer.asciidoc

Co-Authored-By: gchaps <33642766+gchaps@users.noreply.github.com>

* add api integration test for indexSettings route

* eslint fixes

* review feedback

* display toast on first index settings fetch failure

* clean up

Co-authored-by: gchaps <33642766+gchaps@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Elastic Machine <elasticmachine@users.noreply.github.com>

Co-authored-by: gchaps <33642766+gchaps@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Elastic Machine <elasticmachine@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/maps/maps-aggregations.asciidoc, after:

[role="xpack"]
[[maps-aggregations]]
== Plot big data without plotting too much data

Use {ref}/search-aggregations.html[aggregations] to plot large data sets without overwhemling your network or your browser.

Aggregations group your documents into buckets and calculate metrics for each bucket.
Your documents stay in Elasticsearch and only the metrics for each group are returned to your computer.

Use aggregated layers with document layers to show aggregated views when the map shows larger
amounts of the globe and individual documents when the map shows smaller regions.

In the following example, the Grid aggregation layer is only visible when the map is at zoom levels 0 through 5. The Documents layer is only visible when the map is at zoom levels 4 through 24.
See the <<maps-add-elasticsearch-layer, Getting started>> tutorial for more details on configuring the layers.

[role="screenshot"]
image::maps/images/grid_to_docs.gif[]

[role="xpack"]
[[maps-grid-aggregation]]
=== Grid aggregation

The *Grid aggregation* source uses {ref}/search-aggregations-bucket-geotilegrid-aggregation.html[GeoTile grid aggregation] to group your documents into grids. You can calculate metrics for each gridded cell.

You can symbolize grid aggregation metrics as:

*Points*:: Creates a <<vector-layer, vector layer>> with a point for each gridded cell.
The point location is the weighted centroid for all geo-points in the gridded cell.

*Grid rectangles*:: Creates a <<vector-layer, vector layer>> with a bounding box polygon for each gridded cell.

*Heat map*:: Creates a <<heatmap-layer, heat map layer>> that clusters the weighted centroids for each gridded cell.


[role="xpack"]
[[maps-top-hits-aggregation]]
=== Top hits per entity

You can display the most relevant documents per entity, for example, the most recent GPS tracks per flight.
To get this data, {es} first groups your data using a {ref}/search-aggregations-bucket-terms-aggregation.html[terms aggregation],
then accumulates the most relevant documents based on sort order for each entry using a {ref}/search-aggregations-metrics-top-hits-aggregation.html[top hits metric aggregation].

Top hits per entity is available for <<vector-layer, vector layers>> with *Documents* source.
To enable top hits:

. In *Sorting*, select the *Show documents per entity* checkbox.
. Set *Entity* to the field that identifies entities in your documents.
This field will be used in the terms aggregation to group your documents into entity buckets.
. Set *Documents per entity* to configure the maximum number of documents accumulated per entity.
This setting is limited to the `index.max_inner_result_window` index setting, which defaults to 100.

[role="screenshot"]
image::maps/images/top_hits.png[]

[role="xpack"]
[[point-to-point]]
=== Point to point

A point-to-point connection plots aggregated data paths between the source and the destination.
Thicker, darker lines symbolize more connections between a source and destination, and thinner, lighter lines symbolize less connections.

Point to point uses an {es} {ref}/search-aggregations-bucket-terms-aggregation.html[terms aggregation] to group your documents by destination.
Then, a nested {ref}/search-aggregations-bucket-geotilegrid-aggregation.html[GeoTile grid aggregation] groups sources for each destination into grids.
A line connects each source grid centroid to each destination.

image::maps/images/point_to_point.png[]

[role="xpack"]
[[terms-join]]
=== Term join

Use term joins to augment vector features with properties for <<maps-vector-style-data-driven, data driven styling>> and richer tooltip content.

Term joins are available for <<vector-layer, vector layers>> with the following sources:

* Configured GeoJSON
* Documents
* EMS Boundaries

==== Example term join

The <<maps-add-choropleth-layer, choropleth layer example>> uses a term join to shade world countries by web log traffic.
Darker shades symbolize countries with more web log traffic, and lighter shades symbolize countries with less traffic.

[role="screenshot"]
image::maps/images/gs_add_cloropeth_layer.png[]

===== How a term join works

A term join uses a shared key to combine vector features, the left source, with the results of an {es} terms aggregation, the right source.

The cloropeth example uses the shared key, https://wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166-1_alpha-2[ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code], to join world countries and web log traffic.
ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code is an international standard that identifies countries by a two-letter country code.
For example, *Sweden* has an ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code of *SE*.

[role="screenshot"]
image::maps/images/terms_join_shared_key_config.png[]

===== Left source

The left source for the term join is the https://www.elastic.co/elastic-maps-service[Elastic Maps Service (EMS)] World Countries. Vector features for this source are provided by EMS. You can also use your own vector features.

In the following example, *iso2* property defines the shared key for the left source.
--------------------------------------------------
{
  geometry: {
    coordinates: [...],
    type: "Polygon"
  },
  properties: {
    name: "Sweden",
    iso2: "SE"
  },
  type: "Feature"
}
--------------------------------------------------

===== Right source

The right source uses the Kibana sample data set "Sample web logs".
In this data set, the *geo.src* field contains the ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code of the country of origin.

A {ref}/search-aggregations-bucket-terms-aggregation.html[terms aggregation] groups the sample web log documents by *geo.src* and calculates metrics for each term.

The METRICS configuration defines two metric aggregations:

* The count of all documents in the terms bucket.
* The average of the field "bytes" for all documents in the terms bucket.

[role="screenshot"]
image::maps/images/terms_join_metric_config.png[]

The right source does not provide individual documents, but instead provides the metrics from a terms aggregation.
The metrics are calculated from the following sample web logs documents.
--------------------------------------------------
{
  bytes: 1837,
  geo: {
    src: "SE"
  },
  timestamp: "Feb 28, 2019 @ 07:23:08.754"
},
{
  bytes: 971,
  geo: {
    src: "SE"
  },
  timestamp: "Feb 27, 2019 @ 08:10:45.205"
},
{
  bytes: 4277,
  geo: {
    src: "SE"
  },
  timestamp: "Feb 21, 2019 @ 05:24:33.945"
},
{
  bytes: 5624,
  geo: {
    src: "SE"
  },
  timestamp: "Feb 21, 2019 @ 04:57:05.921"
}
--------------------------------------------------

The terms aggregation creates a bucket for each unique *geo.src* value. Metrics are calucated for all documents in a bucket.

The following shows an example terms aggregation response. Note the *key* property, which defines the shared key for the right source.
--------------------------------------------------
{
  aggregations: {
    join: {
      buckets: [
        {
          doc_count: 4,
          key: "SE",
          avg_of_bytes: {
            value: 3177.25
          }
        },
        ...
      ]
    }
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------

==== Augmenting the left source with metrics from the right source

The join adds metrics for each terms aggregation bucket to the world country feature with the corresponding ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code. Features that do not have a corresponding terms aggregation bucket are not visible on the map.

The world country features now have two additional properties:

* Count of web log traffic originating from the world country
* Average bytes of web log traffic originating from the world country

The cloropeth example uses the count of web log traffic to symbolize countries by web log traffic.
