docs/maps/vector-style-properties.asciidoc, before:

[role="xpack"]
[[maps-vector-style-properties]]
=== Vector style properties

Point, polygon, and line features support different styling properties.

[float]
[[point-style-properties]]
==== Point style properties

You can add text labels to your Point features by configuring label style properties.

[cols="2*"]
|===
|*Label*
|Specifies label content.
|*Label color*
|The text color.
|*Label size*
|The size of the text, in pixels.
|*Label&nbsp;border&nbsp;color*
|The color of the label border.
|*Label&nbsp;border&nbsp;width*
|The width of the label border.
|===

You can symbolize Point features as *Circle markers* or *Icons*.

Use *Circle marker* to symbolize Points as circles.

[cols="2*"]
|===
|*Border color*
|The border color of the point features.
|*Border width*
|The border width of the point features.
|*Fill color*
|The fill color of the point features.
|*Symbol size*
|The radius of the symbol size, in pixels.
|===

Use *Icon* to symbolize Points as icons.

[cols="2*"]
|===
|*Border color*
|The border color of the point features.
|*Border width*
|The border width of the point features.
|*Fill color*
|The fill color of the point features.
|*Symbol orientation*
|The symbol orientation rotating the icon clockwise.
|*Symbol size*
|The radius of the symbol size, in pixels.
|===

Available icons

[role="screenshot"]
image::maps/images/maki-icons.png[]

[float]
[[polygon-style-properties]]
==== Polygon style properties

[cols="2*"]
|===
|*Border color*
|The border color of the polygon features.
|*Border width*
|The border width of the polygon features.
|*Fill color*
|The fill color of the polygon features.
|*Label*
|Specifies label content. For polygons, the label is positioned at the polygon centroid. For multi-polygons, the label is positioned at the largest polygon centroid.
|*Label color*
|The text color.
|*Label size*
|The size of the text, in pixels.
|*Label&nbsp;border&nbsp;color*
|The color of the label border.
|*Label&nbsp;border&nbsp;width*
|The width of the label border.
|===


[float]
[[line-style-properties]]
==== Line style properties

[cols="2*"]
|===
|*Border color*
|The color of the line features.
|*Border width*
|The width of the line features.
|*Label*
|Specifies label content. For lines, the label is positioned at the center of the line. For multi-lines, the label is positioned at the center of the longest line.
|*Label color*
|The text color.
|*Label size*
|The size of the text, in pixels.
|*Label&nbsp;border&nbsp;color*
|The color of the label border.
|*Label&nbsp;border&nbsp;width*
|The width of the label border.
|===

Commit message:

[DOCS] [Maps] Add documentation for custom icons (#129530)

docs/maps/vector-style-properties.asciidoc, after:

[role="xpack"]
[[maps-vector-style-properties]]
=== Vector style properties

Point, polygon, and line features support different styling properties.

[float]
[[point-style-properties]]
==== Point style properties

You can add text labels to your Point features by configuring label style properties.

[cols="2*"]
|===
|*Label*
|Specifies label content.
|*Label color*
|The text color.
|*Label size*
|The size of the text, in pixels.
|*Label&nbsp;border&nbsp;color*
|The color of the label border.
|*Label&nbsp;border&nbsp;width*
|The width of the label border.
|===

You can symbolize Point features as *Circle markers* or *Icons*.

Use *Circle marker* to symbolize Points as circles.

[cols="2*"]
|===
|*Border color*
|The border color of the point features.
|*Border width*
|The border width of the point features.
|*Fill color*
|The fill color of the point features.
|*Symbol size*
|The radius of the symbol size, in pixels.
|===

Use *Icon* to symbolize Points as icons.

[cols="2*"]
|===
|*Border color*
|The border color of the point features.
|*Border width*
|The border width of the point features.
|*Fill color*
|The fill color of the point features.
|*Symbol orientation*
|The symbol orientation rotating the icon clockwise.
|*Symbol size*
|The radius of the symbol size, in pixels.
|===

Available icons

[role="screenshot"]
image::maps/images/maki-icons.png[]

Custom Icons

You can also use your own SVG icon to style Point features in your map. In **Layer settings** open the *icon* dropdown, and click the **Add custom icon** button. For best results, your SVG icon should be monochrome and have limited details. 

Dynamic styling in **Elastic Maps** requires rendering SVG icons as PNGs using a https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Signed_distance_function[signed distance function]. As a result, sharp corners and intricate details may not render correctly. Modifying the settings under **Advanced Options** in the **Add custom icon** modal may improve rendering.

Manage your custom icons in <<maps-settings, Map settings>>.

[float]
[[polygon-style-properties]]
==== Polygon style properties

[cols="2*"]
|===
|*Border color*
|The border color of the polygon features.
|*Border width*
|The border width of the polygon features.
|*Fill color*
|The fill color of the polygon features.
|*Label*
|Specifies label content. For polygons, the label is positioned at the polygon centroid. For multi-polygons, the label is positioned at the largest polygon centroid.
|*Label color*
|The text color.
|*Label size*
|The size of the text, in pixels.
|*Label&nbsp;border&nbsp;color*
|The color of the label border.
|*Label&nbsp;border&nbsp;width*
|The width of the label border.
|===


[float]
[[line-style-properties]]
==== Line style properties

[cols="2*"]
|===
|*Border color*
|The color of the line features.
|*Border width*
|The width of the line features.
|*Label*
|Specifies label content. For lines, the label is positioned at the center of the line. For multi-lines, the label is positioned at the center of the longest line.
|*Label color*
|The text color.
|*Label size*
|The size of the text, in pixels.
|*Label&nbsp;border&nbsp;color*
|The color of the label border.
|*Label&nbsp;border&nbsp;width*
|The width of the label border.
|===
