docs/user/alerting/action-types/pagerduty.asciidoc, before:

[role="xpack"]
[[pagerduty-action-type]]
=== PagerDuty action

The PagerDuty action type uses the https://v2.developer.pagerduty.com/docs/events-api-v2[v2 Events API] to trigger, acknowledge, and resolve PagerDuty alerts.

* <<pagerduty-benefits, PagerDuty and Elastic integration benefits>>
* <<pagerduty-connector-configuration, Connector configuration>>
* <<pagerduty-action-configuration, Action configuration>>

[float]
[[pagerduty-benefits]]
==== PagerDuty + Elastic integration benefits

By integrating PagerDuty with alerts, you can:

* Route your alerts to the right PagerDuty responder within your team, based on your structure, escalation policies, and workflows.
* Automatically generate incidents of different types and severity based on each alert’s context.
* Tailor the incident data to match your needs by easily passing the alerting context from Kibana to PagerDuty.

[float]
[[pagerduty-how-it-works]]
===== How it works

{kib} allows you to create alerts to notify you of a significant move
in your dataset.
You can create alerts for all your Observability, Security, and Elastic Stack use cases.
Alerts will trigger a new incident on the corresponding PagerDuty service.

[float]
===== Requirements

In the `kibana.yml` configuration file, you must add the <<general-alert-action-settings, saved objects encryption setting>>.
This is required to encrypt parameters that must be secured, for example PagerDuty’s integration key.

If you have security enabled:

* You must have
application privileges to access Metrics, APM, Uptime, or Security.
* If you are using a self-managed deployment with security, you must have
Transport Security Layer (TLS) enabled for communication <<configuring-tls-kib-es, between Elasticsearch and Kibana>>.
Alerts uses API keys to secure background alert checks and actions,
and API keys require {ref}/configuring-tls.html#tls-http[TLS on the HTTP interface].

Although not a requirement, to harden the integrations security you might want to
review the <<action-settings, Actions settings>> that are available to you.

[float]
[[pagerduty-support]]
===== Support
If you need help with this integration, get in touch with the {kib} team by visiting
https://support.elastic.co[support.elastic.co] or by using the *Ask Elastic* option in the {kib} Help menu.
You can also select the {kib} category at https://discuss.elastic.co/[discuss.elastic.co].

[float]
[[pagerduty-integration-walkthrough]]
===== Integration with PagerDuty walkthrough

[[pagerduty-in-pagerduty]]
*In PagerDuty*

. From the *Configuration* menu, select *Services*.
. Add an integration to a service:
+
* If you are adding your integration to an existing service,
click the name of the service you want to add the integration to.
Then, select the *Integrations* tab and click the *New Integration* button.
* If you are creating a new service for your integration,
go to
https://support.pagerduty.com/docs/services-and-integrations#section-configuring-services-and-integrations[Configuring Services and Integrations]
and follow the steps outlined in the *Create a New Service* section, selecting *Elastic Alerts* as the *Integration Type* in step 4.
Continue with the <<pagerduty-in-elastic, In Elastic>> section once you have finished these steps.

. Enter an *Integration Name* in the format Elastic-service-name (for example, Elastic-Alerting or Kibana-APM-Alerting)
and select *Elastic Alerts* from the *Integration Type* menu.
. Click *Add Integration* to save your new integration.
+
You will be redirected to the *Integrations* tab for your service. An Integration Key is generated on this screen.
+
[role="screenshot"]
image::user/alerting/images/pagerduty-integration.png[PagerDuty Integrations tab]

. Save this key, as you will use it when you configure the integration with Elastic in the next section.

[[pagerduty-in-elastic]]
*In Elastic*

. Create a PagerDuty Connector in Kibana.  You can:
+
* Create a connector as part of creating an alert by selecting PagerDuty in the *Actions*
section of the alert configuration and selecting *Add new*.
* Alternatively, create a connector by navigating to *Management* from the {kib} navbar and selecting
*Alerts and Actions*. Then, select the *Connectors* tab, click the *Create connector* button, and select the PagerDuty option.

. Configure the connector by giving it a name and entering the Integration Key, optionally entering a custom API URL.
+
See <<pagerduty-in-pagerduty, In PagerDuty>> for how to obtain the endpoint and key information from PagerDuty and
<<pagerduty-connector-configuration, Connector configuration>> for more details.

. Save the Connector.

. Create an alert using *Management > Alerts and Actions* or the application of your choice.

. Set up an action using your PagerDuty connector, by determining:
+
* The action’s type: Trigger, Resolve, or Acknowledge.
* The event’s severity: Info, warning, error, or critical.
* An array of different fields, including the timestamp, group, class, component, and your dedup key.
Depending on your custom needs, assign them variables from the alerting context.
To see the available context variables, click on the *Add alert variable* icon next
to each corresponding field. For more details on these parameters, see the
<<pagerduty-action-configuration, Actions Configuration>> and the PagerDuty
https://v2.developer.pagerduty.com/v2/docs/send-an-event-events-api-v2[API v2 documentation].


[float]
[[pagerduty-uninstall]]
===== How to uninstall
To remove a PagerDuty connector from an alert, simply remove it
from the *Actions* section of that alert, using the remove (x) icon.
This will disable the integration for the particular alert.

To delete the connector entirely, go to *Management > Alerts and Actions*.
Select the *Connectors* tab, and then click on the delete icon.
This is an irreversible action and impacts all alerts that use this connector.


[float]
[[pagerduty-connector-configuration]]
==== Connector configuration

PagerDuty connectors have the following configuration properties:

Name::      The name of the connector. The name is used to identify a  connector in the management UI connector listing, or in the connector list when configuring an action.
API URL::   An optional PagerDuty event URL. Defaults to `https://events.pagerduty.com/v2/enqueue`. If you are using the <<action-settings, `xpack.actions.allowedHosts`>> setting, make sure the hostname is added to the allowed hosts.
Integration Key::   A 32 character PagerDuty Integration Key for an integration on a service, also referred to as the routing key.

[float]
[[Preconfigured-pagerduty-configuration]]
==== Preconfigured action type

[source,text]
--
 my-pagerduty:
   name: preconfigured-pagerduty-action-type
   actionTypeId: .pagerduty
   config:
     apiUrl: https://test.host
   secrets:
     routingKey: testroutingkey
--

`config` defines the action type specific to the configuration.
`config` contains
`apiURL`, a string that corresponds to *API URL*.

`secrets` defines sensitive information for the action type.
`secrets` contains
`routingKey`, a string that corresponds to *Integration Key*.


[float]
[[pagerduty-action-configuration]]
==== Action configuration

PagerDuty actions have the following properties:

Severity::      The perceived severity of on the affected system. This can be one of `Critical`, `Error`, `Warning` or `Info`(default).
Event action::  One of `Trigger` (default), `Resolve`, or `Acknowledge`. See https://v2.developer.pagerduty.com/docs/events-api-v2#event-action[event action] for more details.
Dedup Key::     All actions sharing this key will be associated with the same PagerDuty alert. This value is used to correlate trigger and resolution. This value is *optional*, and if unset defaults to `action:<action saved object id>`. The maximum length is *255* characters. See https://v2.developer.pagerduty.com/docs/events-api-v2#alert-de-duplication[alert deduplication] for details.
Timestamp::     An *optional* https://v2.developer.pagerduty.com/v2/docs/types#datetime[ISO-8601 format date-time], indicating the time the event was detected or generated.
Component::     An *optional* value indicating the component of the source machine that is responsible for the event, for example `mysql` or `eth0`.
Group::         An *optional* value indicating the logical grouping of components of a service, for example `app-stack`.
Source::        An *optional* value indicating the affected system, preferably a hostname or fully qualified domain name. Defaults to the {kib} saved object id of the action.
Summary::       An *optional* text summary of the event, defaults to `No summary provided`. The maximum length is 1024 characters.
Class::         An *optional* value indicating the class/type of the event, for example `ping failure` or `cpu load`.

For more details on these properties, see https://v2.developer.pagerduty.com/v2/docs/send-an-event-events-api-v2[PagerDuty v2 event parameters].

Commit message:

[7.x] [DOCS] 7.10 Core UI changes (#80407) (#81491)
* [DOCS] 7.10 screenCore UI changes

* Kibana access options

* Removed Kibana from Set up Kibana

* Removed rogue symbols

* Update docs/spaces/index.asciidoc

Co-authored-by: gchaps <33642766+gchaps@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update docs/management/managing-beats.asciidoc

Co-authored-by: gchaps <33642766+gchaps@users.noreply.github.com>

* Review comments

* Update docs/user/introduction.asciidoc

Co-authored-by: gchaps <33642766+gchaps@users.noreply.github.com>

* Review comments

* Changed menu to main menu

Co-authored-by: gchaps <33642766+gchaps@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/user/alerting/action-types/pagerduty.asciidoc, after:

[role="xpack"]
[[pagerduty-action-type]]
=== PagerDuty action

The PagerDuty action type uses the https://v2.developer.pagerduty.com/docs/events-api-v2[v2 Events API] to trigger, acknowledge, and resolve PagerDuty alerts.

* <<pagerduty-benefits, PagerDuty and Elastic integration benefits>>
* <<pagerduty-connector-configuration, Connector configuration>>
* <<pagerduty-action-configuration, Action configuration>>

[float]
[[pagerduty-benefits]]
==== PagerDuty + Elastic integration benefits

By integrating PagerDuty with alerts, you can:

* Route your alerts to the right PagerDuty responder within your team, based on your structure, escalation policies, and workflows.
* Automatically generate incidents of different types and severity based on each alert’s context.
* Tailor the incident data to match your needs by easily passing the alerting context from Kibana to PagerDuty.

[float]
[[pagerduty-how-it-works]]
===== How it works

{kib} allows you to create alerts to notify you of a significant move
in your dataset.
You can create alerts for all your Observability, Security, and Elastic Stack use cases.
Alerts will trigger a new incident on the corresponding PagerDuty service.

[float]
===== Requirements

In the `kibana.yml` configuration file, you must add the <<general-alert-action-settings, saved objects encryption setting>>.
This is required to encrypt parameters that must be secured, for example PagerDuty’s integration key.

If you have security enabled:

* You must have
application privileges to access Metrics, APM, Uptime, or Security.
* If you are using a self-managed deployment with security, you must have
Transport Security Layer (TLS) enabled for communication <<configuring-tls-kib-es, between Elasticsearch and Kibana>>.
Alerts uses API keys to secure background alert checks and actions,
and API keys require {ref}/configuring-tls.html#tls-http[TLS on the HTTP interface].

Although not a requirement, to harden the integrations security you might want to
review the <<action-settings, Actions settings>> that are available to you.

[float]
[[pagerduty-support]]
===== Support
If you need help with this integration, get in touch with the {kib} team by visiting
https://support.elastic.co[support.elastic.co] or by using the *Ask Elastic* option in the {kib} Help menu.
You can also select the {kib} category at https://discuss.elastic.co/[discuss.elastic.co].

[float]
[[pagerduty-integration-walkthrough]]
===== Integration with PagerDuty walkthrough

[[pagerduty-in-pagerduty]]
*In PagerDuty*

. From the *Configuration* menu, select *Services*.
. Add an integration to a service:
+
* If you are adding your integration to an existing service,
click the name of the service you want to add the integration to.
Then, select the *Integrations* tab and click the *New Integration* button.
* If you are creating a new service for your integration,
go to
https://support.pagerduty.com/docs/services-and-integrations#section-configuring-services-and-integrations[Configuring Services and Integrations]
and follow the steps outlined in the *Create a New Service* section, selecting *Elastic Alerts* as the *Integration Type* in step 4.
Continue with the <<pagerduty-in-elastic, In Elastic>> section once you have finished these steps.

. Enter an *Integration Name* in the format Elastic-service-name (for example, Elastic-Alerting or Kibana-APM-Alerting)
and select *Elastic Alerts* from the *Integration Type* menu.
. Click *Add Integration* to save your new integration.
+
You will be redirected to the *Integrations* tab for your service. An Integration Key is generated on this screen.
+
[role="screenshot"]
image::user/alerting/images/pagerduty-integration.png[PagerDuty Integrations tab]

. Save this key, as you will use it when you configure the integration with Elastic in the next section.

[[pagerduty-in-elastic]]
*In Elastic*

. Create a PagerDuty Connector in Kibana.  You can:
+
* Create a connector as part of creating an alert by selecting PagerDuty in the *Actions*
section of the alert configuration and selecting *Add new*.
* Alternatively, create a connector. To create a connector, open the main menu, click *Stack Management* >
Alerts and Actions*, select *Connectors*, click *Create connector*, then select the PagerDuty option.

. Configure the connector by giving it a name and entering the Integration Key, optionally entering a custom API URL.
+
See <<pagerduty-in-pagerduty, In PagerDuty>> for how to obtain the endpoint and key information from PagerDuty and
<<pagerduty-connector-configuration, Connector configuration>> for more details.

. Save the Connector.

. To create an alert, open the main menu, then click *Stack Management > Alerts and Actions* or the application of your choice.

. Set up an action using your PagerDuty connector, by determining:
+
* The action’s type: Trigger, Resolve, or Acknowledge.
* The event’s severity: Info, warning, error, or critical.
* An array of different fields, including the timestamp, group, class, component, and your dedup key.
Depending on your custom needs, assign them variables from the alerting context.
To see the available context variables, click on the *Add alert variable* icon next
to each corresponding field. For more details on these parameters, see the
<<pagerduty-action-configuration, Actions Configuration>> and the PagerDuty
https://v2.developer.pagerduty.com/v2/docs/send-an-event-events-api-v2[API v2 documentation].


[float]
[[pagerduty-uninstall]]
===== How to uninstall
To remove a PagerDuty connector from an alert, simply remove it
from the *Actions* section of that alert, using the remove (x) icon.
This will disable the integration for the particular alert.

To delete the connector entirely, open the main menu, then click *Stack Management > Alerts and Actions*.
Select the *Connectors* tab, and then click on the delete icon.
This is an irreversible action and impacts all alerts that use this connector.


[float]
[[pagerduty-connector-configuration]]
==== Connector configuration

PagerDuty connectors have the following configuration properties:

Name::      The name of the connector. The name is used to identify a  connector in the management UI connector listing, or in the connector list when configuring an action.
API URL::   An optional PagerDuty event URL. Defaults to `https://events.pagerduty.com/v2/enqueue`. If you are using the <<action-settings, `xpack.actions.allowedHosts`>> setting, make sure the hostname is added to the allowed hosts.
Integration Key::   A 32 character PagerDuty Integration Key for an integration on a service, also referred to as the routing key.

[float]
[[Preconfigured-pagerduty-configuration]]
==== Preconfigured action type

[source,text]
--
 my-pagerduty:
   name: preconfigured-pagerduty-action-type
   actionTypeId: .pagerduty
   config:
     apiUrl: https://test.host
   secrets:
     routingKey: testroutingkey
--

`config` defines the action type specific to the configuration.
`config` contains
`apiURL`, a string that corresponds to *API URL*.

`secrets` defines sensitive information for the action type.
`secrets` contains
`routingKey`, a string that corresponds to *Integration Key*.


[float]
[[pagerduty-action-configuration]]
==== Action configuration

PagerDuty actions have the following properties:

Severity::      The perceived severity of on the affected system. This can be one of `Critical`, `Error`, `Warning` or `Info`(default).
Event action::  One of `Trigger` (default), `Resolve`, or `Acknowledge`. See https://v2.developer.pagerduty.com/docs/events-api-v2#event-action[event action] for more details.
Dedup Key::     All actions sharing this key will be associated with the same PagerDuty alert. This value is used to correlate trigger and resolution. This value is *optional*, and if unset defaults to `action:<action saved object id>`. The maximum length is *255* characters. See https://v2.developer.pagerduty.com/docs/events-api-v2#alert-de-duplication[alert deduplication] for details.
Timestamp::     An *optional* https://v2.developer.pagerduty.com/v2/docs/types#datetime[ISO-8601 format date-time], indicating the time the event was detected or generated.
Component::     An *optional* value indicating the component of the source machine that is responsible for the event, for example `mysql` or `eth0`.
Group::         An *optional* value indicating the logical grouping of components of a service, for example `app-stack`.
Source::        An *optional* value indicating the affected system, preferably a hostname or fully qualified domain name. Defaults to the {kib} saved object id of the action.
Summary::       An *optional* text summary of the event, defaults to `No summary provided`. The maximum length is 1024 characters.
Class::         An *optional* value indicating the class/type of the event, for example `ping failure` or `cpu load`.

For more details on these properties, see https://v2.developer.pagerduty.com/v2/docs/send-an-event-events-api-v2[PagerDuty v2 event parameters].
