docs/settings/alert-action-settings.asciidoc, before:

[role="xpack"]
[[alert-action-settings-kb]]
=== Alerting and action settings in {kib}
++++
<titleabbrev>Alerting and action settings</titleabbrev>
++++

Alerting and actions are enabled by default in {kib}, but require you to configure the following:

. <<using-kibana-with-security,Set up {kib} to work with {stack} {security-features}>>.
. <<configuring-tls-kib-es,Set up TLS encryption between {kib} and {es}>>.
. If you are using an *on-premises* Elastic Stack deployment, <<general-alert-action-settings,specify a value for `xpack.encryptedSavedObjects.encryptionKey`>>.

You can configure the following settings in the `kibana.yml` file.

[float]
[[general-alert-action-settings]]
==== General settings

`xpack.encryptedSavedObjects.encryptionKey`::
A string of 32 or more characters used to encrypt sensitive properties on alerting rules and actions before they're stored in {es}. Third party credentials &mdash; such as the username and password used to connect to an SMTP service &mdash; are an example of encrypted properties.
+
{kib} offers a <<kibana-encryption-keys, CLI tool>> to help generate this encryption key.
+
If not set, {kib} will generate a random key on startup, but all alerting and action functions will be blocked. Generated keys are not allowed for alerting and actions because when a new key is generated on restart, existing encrypted data becomes inaccessible. For the same reason, alerting and actions in high-availability deployments of {kib} will behave unexpectedly if the key isn't the same on all instances of {kib}.
+
Although the key can be specified in clear text in `kibana.yml`, it's recommended to store this key securely in the <<secure-settings,{kib} Keystore>>.
Be sure to back up the encryption key value somewhere safe, as your alerting rules and actions will cease to function due to decryption failures should you lose it.  If you want to rotate the encryption key, be sure to follow the instructions on <<encryption-key-rotation, encryption key rotation>>.

[float]
[[action-settings]]
==== Action settings

`xpack.actions.allowedHosts` {ess-icon}::
A list of hostnames that {kib} is allowed to connect to when built-in actions are triggered. It defaults to `[*]`, allowing any host, but keep in mind the potential for SSRF attacks when hosts are not explicitly added to the allowed hosts. An empty list `[]` can be used to block built-in actions from making any external connections.
+
Note that hosts associated with built-in actions, such as Slack and PagerDuty, are not automatically added to allowed hosts. If you are not using the default `[*]` setting, you must ensure that the corresponding endpoints are added to the allowed hosts as well.

`xpack.actions.customHostSettings` {ess-icon}::
A list of custom host settings to override existing global settings.
Default: an empty list.
+
Each entry in the list must have a `url` property, to associate a connection
type (mail or https), hostname and port with the remaining options in the
entry.
+
In the following example, two custom host settings
are defined.  The first provides a custom host setting for mail server
`mail.example.com` using port 465 that supplies server certificate authentication
data from both a file and inline, and requires TLS for the
connection.  The second provides a custom host setting for https server
`webhook.example.com` which turns off server certificate authentication,
that will allow Kibana to connect to the server if it's using a self-signed
certificate.  The individual properties that can be used in the settings are
documented below.
+
[source,yaml]
--
xpack.actions.customHostSettings:
  - url: smtp://mail.example.com:465
    ssl:
      verificationMode: 'full'
      certificateAuthoritiesFiles: [ 'one.crt' ]
      certificateAuthoritiesData: |
          -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
          ... multiple lines of certificate data here ...
          -----END CERTIFICATE-----
    smtp:
      requireTLS: true
  - url: https://webhook.example.com
    ssl:
      verificationMode: 'none'
--

The settings in `xpack.actions.customHostSettings` can be used to override the
global option `xpack.actions.ssl.verificationMode` and provide customized TLS
settings on a per-server basis. Set `xpack.actions.ssl.verificationMode` to the
value to be used by default for all servers, then add an entry in
`xpack.actions.customHostSettings` for every server that requires customized
settings.

`xpack.actions.customHostSettings[n].url` {ess-icon}::
A URL associated with this custom host setting.  Should be in the form of
`protocol://hostname:port`, where `protocol` is `https` or `smtp`.  If the
port is not provided, 443 is used for `https` and 25 is used for
`smtp`.  The `smtp` URLs are used for the Email actions that use this
server, and the `https` URLs are used for actions which use `https` to
connect to services.
+
Entries with `https` URLs can use the `ssl` options, and entries with `smtp`
URLs can use both the `ssl` and `smtp` options.
+
No other URL values should be part of this URL, including paths,
query strings, and authentication information.  When an http or smtp request
is made as part of executing an action, only the protocol, hostname, and
port of the URL for that request are used to look up these configuration
values.

`xpack.actions.customHostSettings[n].smtp.ignoreTLS` {ess-icon}::
A boolean value indicating that TLS must not be used for this connection.
The options `smtp.ignoreTLS` and `smtp.requireTLS` can not both be set to true.
Default: `false`.

`xpack.actions.customHostSettings[n].smtp.requireTLS` {ess-icon}::
A boolean value indicating that TLS must be used for this connection.
The options `smtp.ignoreTLS` and `smtp.requireTLS` can not both be set to true.
Default: `false`.

`xpack.actions.customHostSettings[n].ssl.rejectUnauthorized`::
Deprecated. Use <<action-config-custom-host-verification-mode,`xpack.actions.customHostSettings.ssl.verificationMode`>> instead. A boolean value indicating whether to bypass server certificate validation.
Overrides the general `xpack.actions.rejectUnauthorized` configuration
for requests made for this hostname/port.

[[action-config-custom-host-verification-mode]] `xpack.actions.customHostSettings[n].ssl.verificationMode` {ess-icon}::
Controls the verification of the server certificate that {kib} receives when making an outbound SSL/TLS connection to the host server. Valid values are `full`, `certificate`, and `none`.
Use `full` to perform hostname verification, `certificate` to skip hostname verification, and `none` to skip verification. Default: `full`. <<elasticsearch-ssl-verificationMode,Equivalent {kib} setting>>. Overrides the general `xpack.actions.ssl.verificationMode` configuration
for requests made for this hostname/port.

`xpack.actions.customHostSettings[n].ssl.certificateAuthoritiesFiles`::
A file name or list of file names of PEM-encoded certificate files to use
to validate the server.

`xpack.actions.customHostSettings[n].ssl.certificateAuthoritiesData` {ess-icon}::
The contents of a PEM-encoded certificate file, or multiple files appended
into a single string.  This configuration can be used for environments where
the files cannot be made available.

`xpack.actions.enabledActionTypes` {ess-icon}::
A list of action types that are enabled. It defaults to `[*]`, enabling all types. The names for built-in {kib} action types are prefixed with a `.` and include: `.email`, `.index`, `.jira`, `.pagerduty`, `.resilient`, `.server-log`, `.servicenow`, .`servicenow-itom`, `.servicenow-sir`, `.slack`, `.swimlane`, `.teams`, `.xmatters`, and `.webhook`. An empty list `[]` will disable all action types.
+
Disabled action types will not appear as an option when creating new connectors, but existing connectors and actions of that type will remain in {kib} and will not function.

`xpack.actions.preconfiguredAlertHistoryEsIndex` {ess-icon}::
Enables a preconfigured alert history {es} <<index-action-type, Index>> connector. Default: `false`.

`xpack.actions.preconfigured`::
Specifies preconfigured connector IDs and configs. Default: {}.

`xpack.actions.proxyUrl` {ess-icon}::
Specifies the proxy URL to use, if using a proxy for actions. By default, no proxy is used.

`xpack.actions.proxyBypassHosts` {ess-icon}::
Specifies hostnames which should not use the proxy, if using a proxy for actions. The value is an array of hostnames as strings.  By default, all hosts will use the proxy, but if an action's hostname is in this list, the proxy will not be used.  The settings `xpack.actions.proxyBypassHosts` and `xpack.actions.proxyOnlyHosts` cannot be used at the same time.

`xpack.actions.proxyOnlyHosts` {ess-icon}::
Specifies hostnames which should only use the proxy, if using a proxy for actions. The value is an array of hostnames as strings.  By default, no hosts will use the proxy, but if an action's hostname is in this list, the proxy will be used.  The settings `xpack.actions.proxyBypassHosts` and `xpack.actions.proxyOnlyHosts` cannot be used at the same time.

`xpack.actions.proxyHeaders` {ess-icon}::
Specifies HTTP headers for the proxy, if using a proxy for actions. Default: {}.

`xpack.actions.proxyRejectUnauthorizedCertificates` {ess-icon}::
Deprecated. Use <<action-config-proxy-verification-mode,`xpack.actions.ssl.proxyVerificationMode`>> instead. Set to `false` to bypass certificate validation for the proxy, if using a proxy for actions. Default: `true`.

[[action-config-proxy-verification-mode]]`xpack.actions.ssl.proxyVerificationMode` {ess-icon}::
Controls the verification for the proxy server certificate that Kibana receives when making an outbound SSL/TLS connection to the proxy server. Valid values are `full`, `certificate`, and `none`.
Use `full` to perform hostname verification, `certificate` to skip hostname verification, and `none` to skip verification. Default: `full`. <<elasticsearch-ssl-verificationMode,Equivalent {kib} setting>>.

`xpack.actions.rejectUnauthorized` {ess-icon}::
Deprecated. Use <<action-config-verification-mode,`xpack.actions.ssl.verificationMode`>> instead. Set to `false` to bypass certificate validation for actions. Default: `true`.
+
As an alternative to setting `xpack.actions.rejectUnauthorized`, you can use the setting
`xpack.actions.customHostSettings` to set SSL options for specific servers.

[[action-config-verification-mode]] `xpack.actions.ssl.verificationMode` {ess-icon}::
Controls the verification for the server certificate that {hosted-ems} receives when making an outbound SSL/TLS connection for actions. Valid values are `full`, `certificate`, and `none`.
Use `full` to perform hostname verification, `certificate` to skip hostname verification, and `none` to skip verification. Default: `full`. <<elasticsearch-ssl-verificationMode,Equivalent {kib} setting>>.
+
This setting can be overridden for specific URLs by using the setting
`xpack.actions.customHostSettings[n].ssl.verificationMode` (described above) to a different value.

`xpack.actions.maxResponseContentLength` {ess-icon}::
Specifies the max number of bytes of the http response for requests to external resources. Default: 1000000 (1MB).

`xpack.actions.responseTimeout` {ess-icon}::
Specifies the time allowed for requests to external resources. Requests that take longer are aborted. The time is formatted as:
+
`<count>[ms,s,m,h,d,w,M,Y]` 
+
For example, `20m`, `24h`, `7d`, `1w`. Default: `60s`.

[float]
[[alert-settings]]
==== Alerting settings

`xpack.alerting.maxEphemeralActionsPerAlert`::
Sets the number of actions that will be executed ephemerally. To use this, enable ephemeral tasks in task manager first with <<task-manager-settings,`xpack.task_manager.ephemeral_tasks.enabled`>>

`xpack.alerting.defaultRuleTaskTimeout`::
Specifies the default timeout for the all rule types tasks. The time is formatted as:
+
`<count>[ms,s,m,h,d,w,M,Y]` 
+
For example, `20m`, `24h`, `7d`, `1w`. Default: `5m`.

`xpack.alerting.cancelAlertsOnRuleTimeout`::
Specifies whether to skip writing alerts and scheduling actions if rule execution is cancelled due to timeout. Default: `true`. This setting can be overridden by individual rule types.

`xpack.alerting.minimumScheduleInterval`::
Specifies the minimum interval allowed for the all rules. This minimum is enforced for all rules created or updated after the introduction of this setting. The time is formatted as:
+
`<count>[s,m,h,d]` 
+
For example, `20m`, `24h`, `7d`. Default: `1m`.

`xpack.alerting.rules.execution.actions.max`
Specifies the maximum number of actions that a rule can trigger each time detection checks run.

Commit message:

[Alerting] Warn by default when rule schedule interval is set below the minimum configured. (#127498)
* Changing structure of minimumScheduleInterval config

* Updating rules client logic to follow enforce flag

* Updating UI to use enforce value

* Updating config key in functional tests

* Fixes

* Fixes

* Updating help text

* Wording suggestsion from PR review

* Log warning instead of throwing an error if rule has default interval less than minimum

* Updating default interval to be minimum if minimum is greater than hardcoded default

* Fixing checks

* Fixing tests

* Fixing tests

* Fixing config

* Fixing checks

Co-authored-by: Kibana Machine <42973632+kibanamachine@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/settings/alert-action-settings.asciidoc, after:

[role="xpack"]
[[alert-action-settings-kb]]
=== Alerting and action settings in {kib}
++++
<titleabbrev>Alerting and action settings</titleabbrev>
++++

Alerting and actions are enabled by default in {kib}, but require you to configure the following:

. <<using-kibana-with-security,Set up {kib} to work with {stack} {security-features}>>.
. <<configuring-tls-kib-es,Set up TLS encryption between {kib} and {es}>>.
. If you are using an *on-premises* Elastic Stack deployment, <<general-alert-action-settings,specify a value for `xpack.encryptedSavedObjects.encryptionKey`>>.

You can configure the following settings in the `kibana.yml` file.

[float]
[[general-alert-action-settings]]
==== General settings

`xpack.encryptedSavedObjects.encryptionKey`::
A string of 32 or more characters used to encrypt sensitive properties on alerting rules and actions before they're stored in {es}. Third party credentials &mdash; such as the username and password used to connect to an SMTP service &mdash; are an example of encrypted properties.
+
{kib} offers a <<kibana-encryption-keys, CLI tool>> to help generate this encryption key.
+
If not set, {kib} will generate a random key on startup, but all alerting and action functions will be blocked. Generated keys are not allowed for alerting and actions because when a new key is generated on restart, existing encrypted data becomes inaccessible. For the same reason, alerting and actions in high-availability deployments of {kib} will behave unexpectedly if the key isn't the same on all instances of {kib}.
+
Although the key can be specified in clear text in `kibana.yml`, it's recommended to store this key securely in the <<secure-settings,{kib} Keystore>>.
Be sure to back up the encryption key value somewhere safe, as your alerting rules and actions will cease to function due to decryption failures should you lose it.  If you want to rotate the encryption key, be sure to follow the instructions on <<encryption-key-rotation, encryption key rotation>>.

[float]
[[action-settings]]
==== Action settings

`xpack.actions.allowedHosts` {ess-icon}::
A list of hostnames that {kib} is allowed to connect to when built-in actions are triggered. It defaults to `[*]`, allowing any host, but keep in mind the potential for SSRF attacks when hosts are not explicitly added to the allowed hosts. An empty list `[]` can be used to block built-in actions from making any external connections.
+
Note that hosts associated with built-in actions, such as Slack and PagerDuty, are not automatically added to allowed hosts. If you are not using the default `[*]` setting, you must ensure that the corresponding endpoints are added to the allowed hosts as well.

`xpack.actions.customHostSettings` {ess-icon}::
A list of custom host settings to override existing global settings.
Default: an empty list.
+
Each entry in the list must have a `url` property, to associate a connection
type (mail or https), hostname and port with the remaining options in the
entry.
+
In the following example, two custom host settings
are defined.  The first provides a custom host setting for mail server
`mail.example.com` using port 465 that supplies server certificate authentication
data from both a file and inline, and requires TLS for the
connection.  The second provides a custom host setting for https server
`webhook.example.com` which turns off server certificate authentication,
that will allow Kibana to connect to the server if it's using a self-signed
certificate.  The individual properties that can be used in the settings are
documented below.
+
[source,yaml]
--
xpack.actions.customHostSettings:
  - url: smtp://mail.example.com:465
    ssl:
      verificationMode: 'full'
      certificateAuthoritiesFiles: [ 'one.crt' ]
      certificateAuthoritiesData: |
          -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
          ... multiple lines of certificate data here ...
          -----END CERTIFICATE-----
    smtp:
      requireTLS: true
  - url: https://webhook.example.com
    ssl:
      verificationMode: 'none'
--

The settings in `xpack.actions.customHostSettings` can be used to override the
global option `xpack.actions.ssl.verificationMode` and provide customized TLS
settings on a per-server basis. Set `xpack.actions.ssl.verificationMode` to the
value to be used by default for all servers, then add an entry in
`xpack.actions.customHostSettings` for every server that requires customized
settings.

`xpack.actions.customHostSettings[n].url` {ess-icon}::
A URL associated with this custom host setting.  Should be in the form of
`protocol://hostname:port`, where `protocol` is `https` or `smtp`.  If the
port is not provided, 443 is used for `https` and 25 is used for
`smtp`.  The `smtp` URLs are used for the Email actions that use this
server, and the `https` URLs are used for actions which use `https` to
connect to services.
+
Entries with `https` URLs can use the `ssl` options, and entries with `smtp`
URLs can use both the `ssl` and `smtp` options.
+
No other URL values should be part of this URL, including paths,
query strings, and authentication information.  When an http or smtp request
is made as part of executing an action, only the protocol, hostname, and
port of the URL for that request are used to look up these configuration
values.

`xpack.actions.customHostSettings[n].smtp.ignoreTLS` {ess-icon}::
A boolean value indicating that TLS must not be used for this connection.
The options `smtp.ignoreTLS` and `smtp.requireTLS` can not both be set to true.
Default: `false`.

`xpack.actions.customHostSettings[n].smtp.requireTLS` {ess-icon}::
A boolean value indicating that TLS must be used for this connection.
The options `smtp.ignoreTLS` and `smtp.requireTLS` can not both be set to true.
Default: `false`.

`xpack.actions.customHostSettings[n].ssl.rejectUnauthorized`::
Deprecated. Use <<action-config-custom-host-verification-mode,`xpack.actions.customHostSettings.ssl.verificationMode`>> instead. A boolean value indicating whether to bypass server certificate validation.
Overrides the general `xpack.actions.rejectUnauthorized` configuration
for requests made for this hostname/port.

[[action-config-custom-host-verification-mode]] `xpack.actions.customHostSettings[n].ssl.verificationMode` {ess-icon}::
Controls the verification of the server certificate that {kib} receives when making an outbound SSL/TLS connection to the host server. Valid values are `full`, `certificate`, and `none`.
Use `full` to perform hostname verification, `certificate` to skip hostname verification, and `none` to skip verification. Default: `full`. <<elasticsearch-ssl-verificationMode,Equivalent {kib} setting>>. Overrides the general `xpack.actions.ssl.verificationMode` configuration
for requests made for this hostname/port.

`xpack.actions.customHostSettings[n].ssl.certificateAuthoritiesFiles`::
A file name or list of file names of PEM-encoded certificate files to use
to validate the server.

`xpack.actions.customHostSettings[n].ssl.certificateAuthoritiesData` {ess-icon}::
The contents of a PEM-encoded certificate file, or multiple files appended
into a single string.  This configuration can be used for environments where
the files cannot be made available.

`xpack.actions.enabledActionTypes` {ess-icon}::
A list of action types that are enabled. It defaults to `[*]`, enabling all types. The names for built-in {kib} action types are prefixed with a `.` and include: `.email`, `.index`, `.jira`, `.pagerduty`, `.resilient`, `.server-log`, `.servicenow`, .`servicenow-itom`, `.servicenow-sir`, `.slack`, `.swimlane`, `.teams`, `.xmatters`, and `.webhook`. An empty list `[]` will disable all action types.
+
Disabled action types will not appear as an option when creating new connectors, but existing connectors and actions of that type will remain in {kib} and will not function.

`xpack.actions.preconfiguredAlertHistoryEsIndex` {ess-icon}::
Enables a preconfigured alert history {es} <<index-action-type, Index>> connector. Default: `false`.

`xpack.actions.preconfigured`::
Specifies preconfigured connector IDs and configs. Default: {}.

`xpack.actions.proxyUrl` {ess-icon}::
Specifies the proxy URL to use, if using a proxy for actions. By default, no proxy is used.

`xpack.actions.proxyBypassHosts` {ess-icon}::
Specifies hostnames which should not use the proxy, if using a proxy for actions. The value is an array of hostnames as strings.  By default, all hosts will use the proxy, but if an action's hostname is in this list, the proxy will not be used.  The settings `xpack.actions.proxyBypassHosts` and `xpack.actions.proxyOnlyHosts` cannot be used at the same time.

`xpack.actions.proxyOnlyHosts` {ess-icon}::
Specifies hostnames which should only use the proxy, if using a proxy for actions. The value is an array of hostnames as strings.  By default, no hosts will use the proxy, but if an action's hostname is in this list, the proxy will be used.  The settings `xpack.actions.proxyBypassHosts` and `xpack.actions.proxyOnlyHosts` cannot be used at the same time.

`xpack.actions.proxyHeaders` {ess-icon}::
Specifies HTTP headers for the proxy, if using a proxy for actions. Default: {}.

`xpack.actions.proxyRejectUnauthorizedCertificates` {ess-icon}::
Deprecated. Use <<action-config-proxy-verification-mode,`xpack.actions.ssl.proxyVerificationMode`>> instead. Set to `false` to bypass certificate validation for the proxy, if using a proxy for actions. Default: `true`.

[[action-config-proxy-verification-mode]]`xpack.actions.ssl.proxyVerificationMode` {ess-icon}::
Controls the verification for the proxy server certificate that Kibana receives when making an outbound SSL/TLS connection to the proxy server. Valid values are `full`, `certificate`, and `none`.
Use `full` to perform hostname verification, `certificate` to skip hostname verification, and `none` to skip verification. Default: `full`. <<elasticsearch-ssl-verificationMode,Equivalent {kib} setting>>.

`xpack.actions.rejectUnauthorized` {ess-icon}::
Deprecated. Use <<action-config-verification-mode,`xpack.actions.ssl.verificationMode`>> instead. Set to `false` to bypass certificate validation for actions. Default: `true`.
+
As an alternative to setting `xpack.actions.rejectUnauthorized`, you can use the setting
`xpack.actions.customHostSettings` to set SSL options for specific servers.

[[action-config-verification-mode]] `xpack.actions.ssl.verificationMode` {ess-icon}::
Controls the verification for the server certificate that {hosted-ems} receives when making an outbound SSL/TLS connection for actions. Valid values are `full`, `certificate`, and `none`.
Use `full` to perform hostname verification, `certificate` to skip hostname verification, and `none` to skip verification. Default: `full`. <<elasticsearch-ssl-verificationMode,Equivalent {kib} setting>>.
+
This setting can be overridden for specific URLs by using the setting
`xpack.actions.customHostSettings[n].ssl.verificationMode` (described above) to a different value.

`xpack.actions.maxResponseContentLength` {ess-icon}::
Specifies the max number of bytes of the http response for requests to external resources. Default: 1000000 (1MB).

`xpack.actions.responseTimeout` {ess-icon}::
Specifies the time allowed for requests to external resources. Requests that take longer are aborted. The time is formatted as:
+
`<count>[ms,s,m,h,d,w,M,Y]` 
+
For example, `20m`, `24h`, `7d`, `1w`. Default: `60s`.

[float]
[[alert-settings]]
==== Alerting settings

`xpack.alerting.maxEphemeralActionsPerAlert`::
Sets the number of actions that will be executed ephemerally. To use this, enable ephemeral tasks in task manager first with <<task-manager-settings,`xpack.task_manager.ephemeral_tasks.enabled`>>

`xpack.alerting.defaultRuleTaskTimeout`::
Specifies the default timeout for the all rule types tasks. The time is formatted as:
+
`<count>[ms,s,m,h,d,w,M,Y]` 
+
For example, `20m`, `24h`, `7d`, `1w`. Default: `5m`.

`xpack.alerting.cancelAlertsOnRuleTimeout`::
Specifies whether to skip writing alerts and scheduling actions if rule execution is cancelled due to timeout. Default: `true`. This setting can be overridden by individual rule types.

`xpack.alerting.rules.minimumScheduleInterval.value`::
Specifies the minimum schedule interval for rules. This minimum is applied to all rules created or updated after you set this value. The time is formatted as:
+
`<count>[s,m,h,d]` 
+
For example, `20m`, `24h`, `7d`. Default: `1m`.

`xpack.alerting.rules.minimumScheduleInterval.enforce`::
Specifies the behavior when a new or changed rule has a schedule interval less than the value defined in `xpack.alerting.rules.minimumScheduleInterval.value`. If `false`, rules with schedules less than the interval will be created but warnings will be logged. If `true`, rules with schedules less than the interval cannot be created. Default: `false`.

`xpack.alerting.rules.execution.actions.max`::
Specifies the maximum number of actions that a rule can trigger each time detection checks run.
