docs/settings/code-settings.asciidoc, before:

[role="xpack"]
[[code-settings-kibana]]
=== Code Settings in Kibana
++++
<titleabbrev>Code settings</titleabbrev>
++++

Unless you are running multiple Kibana instances as a cluster, you do not need to change any settings to use *Code* by default. If you’d like to change any of the default values, copy and paste the relevant settings below into your `kibana.yml` configuration file.


`xpack.code.updateRepoFrequencyMs`::
Repo update frequency in milliseconds. Defaults to `300000`.

`xpack.code.indexRepoFrequencyMs`::
Repo index frequency in milliseconds. Defaults to `86400000`.

`xpack.code.lsp.verbose`::
Whether to show more verbose log for language servers. Defaults to `false`.

`xpack.code.security.enableMavenImport`::
Whether to support maven. Defaults to `true`.

`xpack.code.security.enableGradleImport`::
Whether to support gradle. Defaults to `false`.

`xpack.code.security.installNodeDependency`::
Whether to enable node dependency download. Defaults to `true`.

`xpack.code.security.gitHostWhitelist`::
Whitelist of hostnames for git clone address. Defaults to `[ 'github.com', 'gitlab.com',  'bitbucket.org', 'gitbox.apache.org', 'eclipse.org',]`.

`xpack.code.security.gitProtocolWhitelist`::
Whitelist of protocols for git clone address. Defaults to `[ 'https', 'git', 'ssh' ]`.

`xpack.code.security.enableGitCertCheck`::
Whether enable HTTPS certificate check when clone from HTTPS URL.

`xpack.code.maxWorkspace`::
Maximal number of workspaces each language server allows to span. Defaults to `5`.

`xpack.code.codeNodeUrl`::
URL of the Code node. This config is only needed when multiple Kibana instances are set up as a cluster. Defaults to ``

`xpack.code.verbose`::
Set this config to `true` to log all events. Defaults to `false`

Commit message:

[Code] Add Java security manager options for Java langserver

docs/settings/code-settings.asciidoc, after:

[role="xpack"]
[[code-settings-kibana]]
=== Code Settings in Kibana
++++
<titleabbrev>Code settings</titleabbrev>
++++

Unless you are running multiple Kibana instances as a cluster, you do not need to change any settings to use *Code* by default. If you’d like to change any of the default values, copy and paste the relevant settings below into your `kibana.yml` configuration file.


`xpack.code.updateRepoFrequencyMs`::
Repo update frequency in milliseconds. Defaults to `300000`.

`xpack.code.indexRepoFrequencyMs`::
Repo index frequency in milliseconds. Defaults to `86400000`.

`xpack.code.lsp.verbose`::
Whether to show more verbose log for language servers. Defaults to `false`.

`xpack.code.security.enableMavenImport`::
Whether to support maven. Defaults to `true`.

`xpack.code.security.enableGradleImport`::
Whether to support gradle. Defaults to `false`.

`xpack.code.security.installNodeDependency`::
Whether to enable node dependency download. Defaults to `true`.

`xpack.code.security.gitHostWhitelist`::
Whitelist of hostnames for git clone address. Defaults to `[ 'github.com', 'gitlab.com',  'bitbucket.org', 'gitbox.apache.org', 'eclipse.org',]`.

`xpack.code.security.gitProtocolWhitelist`::
Whitelist of protocols for git clone address. Defaults to `[ 'https', 'git', 'ssh' ]`.

`xpack.code.security.enableGitCertCheck`::
Whether enable HTTPS certificate check when clone from HTTPS URL.

`xpack.code.security.enableJavaSecurityManager`::
Whether enable Java security manager for Java langserver. Defaults to `true`.

`xpack.code.security.extraJavaRepositoryWitelist`::
Whitelist of extra repository to download dependencies for Java language. Defaults to `[]`.

`xpack.code.maxWorkspace`::
Maximal number of workspaces each language server allows to span. Defaults to `5`.

`xpack.code.codeNodeUrl`::
URL of the Code node. This config is only needed when multiple Kibana instances are set up as a cluster. Defaults to ``

`xpack.code.verbose`::
Set this config to `true` to log all events. Defaults to `false`
