docs/settings/fleet-settings.asciidoc, before:

[role="xpack"]
[[fleet-settings-kb]]
=== {fleet} settings in {kib}
++++
<titleabbrev>{fleet} settings</titleabbrev>
++++

[NOTE]
====
In {ecloud}, {fleet} flags are already configured.
====

You can configure `xpack.fleet` settings in your `kibana.yml`.
By default, {fleet} is enabled. To use {fleet}, you also need to configure {kib} and {es} hosts.

See the {fleet-guide}/index.html[{fleet}] docs for more information.

[[general-fleet-settings-kb]]
==== General {fleet} settings

`xpack.fleet.agents.enabled` {ess-icon}::
Set to `true` (default) to enable {fleet}.


[[fleet-data-visualizer-settings]]

==== {package-manager} settings

`xpack.fleet.registryUrl`::
The address to use to reach the {package-manager} registry.

`xpack.fleet.registryProxyUrl`::
The proxy address to use to reach the {package-manager} registry if an internet connection is not directly available.
Refer to {fleet-guide}/air-gapped.html[Air-gapped environments] for details.


==== {fleet} settings

`xpack.fleet.agents.fleet_server.hosts`::
Hostnames used by {agent} for accessing {fleet-server}.
+
If configured in your `kibana.yml`, this setting is grayed out and unavailable
in the {fleet} UI. To make this setting editable in the UI, do not configure it
in the configuration file. 

`xpack.fleet.agents.elasticsearch.hosts`::
Hostnames used by {agent} for accessing {es}.

`xpack.fleet.agents.elasticsearch.ca_sha256`::
Hash pin used for certificate verification. The pin is a base64-encoded string of the SHA-256 fingerprint.


[role="child_attributes"]
==== Preconfiguration settings (for advanced use cases)

Use these settings to pre-define integrations and agent policies that you
want {fleet} to load up by default.

NOTE: These settings are not supported to pre-configure the Endpoint and Cloud
Security integration.

`xpack.fleet.packages`::
List of integrations that are installed when the {fleet} app starts up for the first time.
+
.Required properties of `xpack.fleet.packages`
[%collapsible%open]
=====
  `name`:::
    Name of the integration from the package registry.

  `version`::: 
    Either an exact semantic version, or the keyword `latest` to fetch the latest integration version.
=====

`xpack.fleet.agentPolicies`::
List of agent policies that are configured when the {fleet} app starts. 
+
.Required properties of `xpack.fleet.agentPolicies`
[%collapsible%open]
=====
  `id`::: 
    Unique ID for this policy. The ID may be a number or string.
  `name`::: 
    Policy name.
=====
+
.Optional properties of `xpack.fleet.agentPolicies`
[%collapsible%open]
=====
  `description`::: 
    Text description of this policy.
  `namespace`::: 
    String identifying this policy's namespace.
  `monitoring_enabled`::: 
    List of keywords that specify the monitoring data to collect. Valid values include `['logs']`, `['metrics']`, and `['logs', 'metrics']`.
  `is_managed`::: 
    If `true`, this policy is not editable by the user and can only be changed by updating the {kib} config.
  `is_default`::: 
    If `true`, this policy is the default agent policy.
  `is_default_fleet_server`::: 
    If `true`, this policy is the default {fleet-server} agent policy.
  `data_output_id`::: 
    ID of the output to send data. (Need to be identical to `monitoring_output_id`)
  `monitoring_output_id`::: 
    ID of the output to send monitoring data. (Need to be identical to `data_output_id`)
  `package_policies`::: 
    List of integration policies to add to this policy.
+
.Properties of `package_policies`
[%collapsible%open]
=======
  `id`:::: 
    Unique ID of the integration policy. The ID may be a number or string.
  `name`:::: 
    (required) Name of the integration policy.
  `package`:::: 
    (required) Integration that this policy configures.
+
.Properties of `package`
[%collapsible%open]
========
  `name`::::
    Name of the integration associated with this policy.
========

  `description`:::: 
    Text string describing this integration policy.
  `namespace`:::: 
    String identifying this policy's namespace.
  `inputs`:::: 
    Array that overrides any default input settings for this integration. Follows the same schema as integration inputs, with the exception that any object in `vars` can be passed `frozen: true` in order to prevent that specific `var` from being edited by the user.
=======
=====

`xpack.fleet.outputs`::
List of outputs that are configured when the {fleet} app starts.
+
If configured in your `kibana.yml`, output settings are grayed out and
unavailable in the {fleet} UI. To make these settings editable in the UI, do not
configure them in the configuration file. 
+
.Required properties of `xpack.fleet.outputs`
[%collapsible%open]
=====
  `id`::: 
    Unique ID for this output. The ID should be a string.
  `name`::: 
    Output name.
  `type`::: 
    Type of Output. Currently we only support "elasticsearch".
  `hosts`::: 
    Array that contains the list of host for that output.
  `config`::: 
    Extra config for that output.
=====
+
.Optional properties of `xpack.fleet.outputs`
[%collapsible%open]
=====
  `is_default`::: 
    If `true`, this output is the default output.
=====
+
Example configuration:
+
[source,yaml]
----
xpack.fleet.packages:
  - name: apache
    version: 0.5.0

xpack.fleet.agentPolicies:
  - name: Preconfigured Policy
    id: 1
    namespace: test
    package_policies:
      - package:
          name: system
        name: System Integration
        id: preconfigured-system
        inputs:
          - type: system/metrics
            enabled: true
            vars:
              - name: system.hostfs
                value: home/test
            streams:
              - data_stream:
                  dataset: system.core
                enabled: true
                vars:
                  - name: period
                    value: 20s
          - type: winlog
            enabled: false
----

Commit message:

Add docs for package verification GPG key

docs/settings/fleet-settings.asciidoc, after:

[role="xpack"]
[[fleet-settings-kb]]
=== {fleet} settings in {kib}
++++
<titleabbrev>{fleet} settings</titleabbrev>
++++

[NOTE]
====
In {ecloud}, {fleet} flags are already configured.
====

You can configure `xpack.fleet` settings in your `kibana.yml`.
By default, {fleet} is enabled. To use {fleet}, you also need to configure {kib} and {es} hosts.

See the {fleet-guide}/index.html[{fleet}] docs for more information.

[[general-fleet-settings-kb]]
==== General {fleet} settings

`xpack.fleet.agents.enabled` {ess-icon}::
Set to `true` (default) to enable {fleet}.


[[fleet-data-visualizer-settings]]

==== {package-manager} settings

`xpack.fleet.registryUrl`::
The address to use to reach the {package-manager} registry.

`xpack.fleet.registryProxyUrl`::
The proxy address to use to reach the {package-manager} registry if an internet connection is not directly available.
Refer to {fleet-guide}/air-gapped.html[Air-gapped environments] for details.

`xpack.fleet.packageVerification.gpgKeyPath`::
The path on disk to the GPG key used to verify the {package-manager} packages. In the event that Elastic's public key
is reissued as a security precuation, you can use this setting to specify the new key.

==== {fleet} settings

`xpack.fleet.agents.fleet_server.hosts`::
Hostnames used by {agent} for accessing {fleet-server}.
+
If configured in your `kibana.yml`, this setting is grayed out and unavailable
in the {fleet} UI. To make this setting editable in the UI, do not configure it
in the configuration file. 

`xpack.fleet.agents.elasticsearch.hosts`::
Hostnames used by {agent} for accessing {es}.

`xpack.fleet.agents.elasticsearch.ca_sha256`::
Hash pin used for certificate verification. The pin is a base64-encoded string of the SHA-256 fingerprint.


[role="child_attributes"]
==== Preconfiguration settings (for advanced use cases)

Use these settings to pre-define integrations and agent policies that you
want {fleet} to load up by default.

NOTE: These settings are not supported to pre-configure the Endpoint and Cloud
Security integration.

`xpack.fleet.packages`::
List of integrations that are installed when the {fleet} app starts up for the first time.
+
.Required properties of `xpack.fleet.packages`
[%collapsible%open]
=====
  `name`:::
    Name of the integration from the package registry.

  `version`::: 
    Either an exact semantic version, or the keyword `latest` to fetch the latest integration version.
=====

`xpack.fleet.agentPolicies`::
List of agent policies that are configured when the {fleet} app starts. 
+
.Required properties of `xpack.fleet.agentPolicies`
[%collapsible%open]
=====
  `id`::: 
    Unique ID for this policy. The ID may be a number or string.
  `name`::: 
    Policy name.
=====
+
.Optional properties of `xpack.fleet.agentPolicies`
[%collapsible%open]
=====
  `description`::: 
    Text description of this policy.
  `namespace`::: 
    String identifying this policy's namespace.
  `monitoring_enabled`::: 
    List of keywords that specify the monitoring data to collect. Valid values include `['logs']`, `['metrics']`, and `['logs', 'metrics']`.
  `is_managed`::: 
    If `true`, this policy is not editable by the user and can only be changed by updating the {kib} config.
  `is_default`::: 
    If `true`, this policy is the default agent policy.
  `is_default_fleet_server`::: 
    If `true`, this policy is the default {fleet-server} agent policy.
  `data_output_id`::: 
    ID of the output to send data. (Need to be identical to `monitoring_output_id`)
  `monitoring_output_id`::: 
    ID of the output to send monitoring data. (Need to be identical to `data_output_id`)
  `package_policies`::: 
    List of integration policies to add to this policy.
+
.Properties of `package_policies`
[%collapsible%open]
=======
  `id`:::: 
    Unique ID of the integration policy. The ID may be a number or string.
  `name`:::: 
    (required) Name of the integration policy.
  `package`:::: 
    (required) Integration that this policy configures.
+
.Properties of `package`
[%collapsible%open]
========
  `name`::::
    Name of the integration associated with this policy.
========

  `description`:::: 
    Text string describing this integration policy.
  `namespace`:::: 
    String identifying this policy's namespace.
  `inputs`:::: 
    Array that overrides any default input settings for this integration. Follows the same schema as integration inputs, with the exception that any object in `vars` can be passed `frozen: true` in order to prevent that specific `var` from being edited by the user.
=======
=====

`xpack.fleet.outputs`::
List of outputs that are configured when the {fleet} app starts.
+
If configured in your `kibana.yml`, output settings are grayed out and
unavailable in the {fleet} UI. To make these settings editable in the UI, do not
configure them in the configuration file. 
+
.Required properties of `xpack.fleet.outputs`
[%collapsible%open]
=====
  `id`::: 
    Unique ID for this output. The ID should be a string.
  `name`::: 
    Output name.
  `type`::: 
    Type of Output. Currently we only support "elasticsearch".
  `hosts`::: 
    Array that contains the list of host for that output.
  `config`::: 
    Extra config for that output.
=====
+
.Optional properties of `xpack.fleet.outputs`
[%collapsible%open]
=====
  `is_default`::: 
    If `true`, this output is the default output.
=====
+
Example configuration:
+
[source,yaml]
----
xpack.fleet.packages:
  - name: apache
    version: 0.5.0

xpack.fleet.agentPolicies:
  - name: Preconfigured Policy
    id: 1
    namespace: test
    package_policies:
      - package:
          name: system
        name: System Integration
        id: preconfigured-system
        inputs:
          - type: system/metrics
            enabled: true
            vars:
              - name: system.hostfs
                value: home/test
            streams:
              - data_stream:
                  dataset: system.core
                enabled: true
                vars:
                  - name: period
                    value: 20s
          - type: winlog
            enabled: false
----
