docs/settings/reporting-settings.asciidoc, before:

[role="xpack"]
[[reporting-settings-kb]]
=== Reporting settings in Kibana
++++
<titleabbrev>Reporting settings</titleabbrev>
++++

You can configure `xpack.reporting` settings in your `kibana.yml` to:

* <<reporting-kibana-server-settings,Control how the {report-features} communicate with the {kib} server>>
* <<reporting-job-queue-settings,Manage background jobs>>
* <<reporting-capture-settings,Capture screenshots>>

[float]
[[general-reporting-settings]]
==== General reporting settings
[[xpack-enable-reporting]]`xpack.reporting.enabled`::
Set to `false` to disable the {report-features}.

`xpack.reporting.encryptionKey`::
Set to any text string. By default, Kibana will generate a random key when it
starts, which will cause pending reports to fail after restart. Configure this
setting to preserve the same key across multiple restarts and multiple instances of Kibana.

[float]
[[reporting-kibana-server-settings]]
==== Kibana server settings

Reporting opens the {kib} web interface in a server process to generate 
screenshots of {kib} visualizations. In most cases, the default settings 
will work and you don't need to configure Reporting to communicate with {kib}. 
However, if your client connections must go through a reverse-proxy
to access {kib}, Reporting configuration must have the proxy port, protocol, 
and hostname set in the `xpack.reporting.kibanaServer.*` settings.

[NOTE] 
====
If a reverse-proxy carries encrypted traffic from end-user 
clients back to a {kib} server, the proxy port, protocol, and hostname 
in Reporting settings must be valid for the encryption that the Reporting 
browser will receive. Encrypted communications will fail if there are 
mismatches in the host information between the request and the certificate on the server.

Configuring the `xpack.reporting.kibanaServer` settings to point to a
proxy host requires that the Kibana server has network access to the proxy.
====

`xpack.reporting.kibanaServer.port`::
The port for accessing Kibana, if different from the `server.port` value.

`xpack.reporting.kibanaServer.protocol`::
The protocol for accessing Kibana, typically `http` or `https`.

`xpack.reporting.kibanaServer.hostname`::
The hostname for accessing {kib}, if different from the `server.host` value.


[float]
[[reporting-job-queue-settings]]
==== Background job settings

Reporting generates reports in the background and jobs are coordinated using documents
in Elasticsearch. Depending on how often you generate reports and the overall number of
reports, you might need to change the following settings.

`xpack.reporting.queue.indexInterval`::
How often the index that stores reporting jobs rolls over to a new index.
Valid values are `year`, `month`, `week`, `day`, and `hour`. Defaults to `week`.

`xpack.reporting.queue.pollEnabled`::
Set to `true` (default) to enable the Kibana instance to to poll the index for
pending jobs and claim them for execution. Setting this to `false` allows the
Kibana instance to only add new jobs to the reporting queue, list jobs, and
provide the downloads to completed report through the UI.

[NOTE]
============
Running multiple instances of Kibana in a cluster for load balancing of
reporting requires identical values for `xpack.reporting.encryptionKey` and, if
security is enabled, `xpack.security.encryptionKey`.
============

`xpack.reporting.queue.pollInterval`::
Specifies the number of milliseconds that the reporting poller waits between polling the
index for any pending Reporting jobs. Defaults to `3000` (3 seconds).

[[xpack-reporting-q-timeout]]`xpack.reporting.queue.timeout`::
How long each worker has to produce a report. If your machine is slow or under
heavy load, you might need to increase this timeout. Specified in milliseconds.
Defaults to `120000` (two minutes).

[float]
[[reporting-capture-settings]]
==== Capture settings

Reporting works by capturing screenshots from Kibana. The following settings
control the capturing process.

`xpack.reporting.capture.maxAttempts`::
If capturing a report fails for any reason, Kibana will re-attempt othe reporting
job, as many times as this setting. Defaults to `3`.

`xpack.reporting.capture.loadDelay`::
When visualizations are not evented, this is the amount of time before
taking a screenshot. All visualizations that ship with Kibana are evented, so this
setting should not have much effect. If you are seeing empty images instead of
visualizations, try increasing this value.
Defaults to `3000` (3 seconds).

[[xpack-reporting-browser]]`xpack.reporting.capture.browser.type`::
Specifies the browser to use to capture screenshots. This setting exists for
backward compatibility. The only valid option is `chromium`. 

[float]
[[reporting-chromium-settings]]
==== Chromium settings

When `xpack.reporting.capture.browser.type` is set to `chromium` (default) you can also specify the following settings.

`xpack.reporting.capture.browser.chromium.disableSandbox`::
Elastic recommends that you research the feasibility of enabling unprivileged user namespaces. 
See Chromium Sandbox for additional information. Defaults to false for all operating systems except Debian,
Red Hat Linux, and CentOS which use true

`xpack.reporting.capture.browser.chromium.proxy.enabled`::
Enables the proxy for Chromium to use. When set to `true`, you must also specify the
`xpack.reporting.capture.browser.chromium.proxy.server` setting.
Defaults to `false`

`xpack.reporting.capture.browser.chromium.proxy.server`::
The uri for the proxy server. Providing the username and password for the proxy server via the uri is not supported.

`xpack.reporting.capture.browser.chromium.proxy.bypass`::
An array of hosts that should not go through the proxy server and should use a direct connection instead.
Examples of valid entries are "elastic.co", "*.elastic.co", ".elastic.co", ".elastic.co:5601"


[float]
[[reporting-csv-settings]]
==== CSV settings
[[xpack-reporting-csv]]`xpack.reporting.csv.maxSizeBytes`::
The maximum size of a CSV file before being truncated. This setting exists to prevent
large exports from causing performance and storage issues.
Defaults to `10485760` (10mB)

[float]
[[reporting-advanced-settings]]
==== Advanced settings

`xpack.reporting.index`::
Reporting uses a weekly index in Elasticsearch to store the reporting job and
the report content. The index is automatically created if it does not already
exist. Configure this to a unique value, beginning with `.reporting-`, for every
Kibana instance that has a unique `kibana.index` setting. Defaults to `.reporting`

`xpack.reporting.roles.allow`::
Specifies the roles in addition to superusers that can use reporting.
Defaults to `[ "reporting_user" ]`
+ 
--
NOTE: Each user has access to only their own reports. 

--

Commit message:

[Reporting] Update some runtime validations

docs/settings/reporting-settings.asciidoc, after:

[role="xpack"]
[[reporting-settings-kb]]
=== Reporting settings in Kibana
++++
<titleabbrev>Reporting settings</titleabbrev>
++++

You can configure `xpack.reporting` settings in your `kibana.yml` to:

* <<reporting-kibana-server-settings,Control how the {report-features} communicate with the {kib} server>>
* <<reporting-job-queue-settings,Manage background jobs>>
* <<reporting-capture-settings,Capture screenshots>>

[float]
[[general-reporting-settings]]
==== General reporting settings
[[xpack-enable-reporting]]`xpack.reporting.enabled`::
Set to `false` to disable the {report-features}.

`xpack.reporting.encryptionKey`::
Set to any text string. By default, Kibana will generate a random key when it
starts, which will cause pending reports to fail after restart. Configure this
setting to preserve the same key across multiple restarts and multiple instances of Kibana.

[float]
[[reporting-kibana-server-settings]]
==== Kibana server settings

Reporting opens the {kib} web interface in a server process to generate 
screenshots of {kib} visualizations. In most cases, the default settings 
will work and you don't need to configure Reporting to communicate with {kib}. 
However, if your client connections must go through a reverse-proxy
to access {kib}, Reporting configuration must have the proxy port, protocol, 
and hostname set in the `xpack.reporting.kibanaServer.*` settings.

[NOTE] 
====
If a reverse-proxy carries encrypted traffic from end-user 
clients back to a {kib} server, the proxy port, protocol, and hostname 
in Reporting settings must be valid for the encryption that the Reporting 
browser will receive. Encrypted communications will fail if there are 
mismatches in the host information between the request and the certificate on the server.

Configuring the `xpack.reporting.kibanaServer` settings to point to a
proxy host requires that the Kibana server has network access to the proxy.
====

`xpack.reporting.kibanaServer.port`::
The port for accessing Kibana, if different from the `server.port` value.

`xpack.reporting.kibanaServer.protocol`::
The protocol for accessing Kibana, typically `http` or `https`.

`xpack.reporting.kibanaServer.hostname`::
The hostname for accessing {kib}, if different from the `server.host` value.

[NOTE]
============
Reporting authenticates requests on the Kibana page only when the hostname matches the
`xpack.reporting.kibanaServer.hostname` setting. Therefore Reporting would fail if the
set value redirects to another server. For that reason, `"0"` is an invalid setting
because, in the Reporting browser, it becomes an automatic redirect to `"0.0.0.0"`.
============


[float]
[[reporting-job-queue-settings]]
==== Background job settings

Reporting generates reports in the background and jobs are coordinated using documents
in Elasticsearch. Depending on how often you generate reports and the overall number of
reports, you might need to change the following settings.

`xpack.reporting.queue.indexInterval`::
How often the index that stores reporting jobs rolls over to a new index.
Valid values are `year`, `month`, `week`, `day`, and `hour`. Defaults to `week`.

`xpack.reporting.queue.pollEnabled`::
Set to `true` (default) to enable the Kibana instance to to poll the index for
pending jobs and claim them for execution. Setting this to `false` allows the
Kibana instance to only add new jobs to the reporting queue, list jobs, and
provide the downloads to completed report through the UI.

[NOTE]
============
Running multiple instances of Kibana in a cluster for load balancing of
reporting requires identical values for `xpack.reporting.encryptionKey` and, if
security is enabled, `xpack.security.encryptionKey`.
============

`xpack.reporting.queue.pollInterval`::
Specifies the number of milliseconds that the reporting poller waits between polling the
index for any pending Reporting jobs. Defaults to `3000` (3 seconds).

[[xpack-reporting-q-timeout]]`xpack.reporting.queue.timeout`::
How long each worker has to produce a report. If your machine is slow or under
heavy load, you might need to increase this timeout. Specified in milliseconds.
Defaults to `120000` (two minutes).

[float]
[[reporting-capture-settings]]
==== Capture settings

Reporting works by capturing screenshots from Kibana. The following settings
control the capturing process.

`xpack.reporting.capture.maxAttempts`::
If capturing a report fails for any reason, Kibana will re-attempt othe reporting
job, as many times as this setting. Defaults to `3`.

`xpack.reporting.capture.loadDelay`::
When visualizations are not evented, this is the amount of time before
taking a screenshot. All visualizations that ship with Kibana are evented, so this
setting should not have much effect. If you are seeing empty images instead of
visualizations, try increasing this value.
Defaults to `3000` (3 seconds).

[[xpack-reporting-browser]]`xpack.reporting.capture.browser.type`::
Specifies the browser to use to capture screenshots. This setting exists for
backward compatibility. The only valid option is `chromium`. 

[float]
[[reporting-chromium-settings]]
==== Chromium settings

When `xpack.reporting.capture.browser.type` is set to `chromium` (default) you can also specify the following settings.

`xpack.reporting.capture.browser.chromium.disableSandbox`::
Elastic recommends that you research the feasibility of enabling unprivileged user namespaces. 
See Chromium Sandbox for additional information. Defaults to false for all operating systems except Debian,
Red Hat Linux, and CentOS which use true

`xpack.reporting.capture.browser.chromium.proxy.enabled`::
Enables the proxy for Chromium to use. When set to `true`, you must also specify the
`xpack.reporting.capture.browser.chromium.proxy.server` setting.
Defaults to `false`

`xpack.reporting.capture.browser.chromium.proxy.server`::
The uri for the proxy server. Providing the username and password for the proxy server via the uri is not supported.

`xpack.reporting.capture.browser.chromium.proxy.bypass`::
An array of hosts that should not go through the proxy server and should use a direct connection instead.
Examples of valid entries are "elastic.co", "*.elastic.co", ".elastic.co", ".elastic.co:5601"


[float]
[[reporting-csv-settings]]
==== CSV settings
[[xpack-reporting-csv]]`xpack.reporting.csv.maxSizeBytes`::
The maximum size of a CSV file before being truncated. This setting exists to prevent
large exports from causing performance and storage issues.
Defaults to `10485760` (10mB)

[float]
[[reporting-advanced-settings]]
==== Advanced settings

`xpack.reporting.index`::
Reporting uses a weekly index in Elasticsearch to store the reporting job and
the report content. The index is automatically created if it does not already
exist. Configure this to a unique value, beginning with `.reporting-`, for every
Kibana instance that has a unique `kibana.index` setting. Defaults to `.reporting`

`xpack.reporting.roles.allow`::
Specifies the roles in addition to superusers that can use reporting.
Defaults to `[ "reporting_user" ]`
+ 
--
NOTE: Each user has access to only their own reports. 

--
