docs/settings/task-manager-settings.asciidoc, before:

[role="xpack"]
[[task-manager-settings-kb]]
=== Task Manager settings in {kib}
++++
<titleabbrev>Task Manager settings</titleabbrev>
++++

Task Manager runs background tasks by polling for work on an interval.  You can configure its behavior to tune for performance and throughput.

[float]
[[task-manager-settings]]
==== Task Manager settings



`xpack.task_manager.max_attempts`::
The maximum number of times a task will be attempted before being abandoned as failed.  Defaults to 3.

`xpack.task_manager.poll_interval`::
How often, in milliseconds, the task manager will look for more work.  Defaults to 3000 and cannot be lower than 100.

`xpack.task_manager.request_capacity`::
How many requests can Task Manager buffer before it rejects new requests.  Defaults to 1000.

`xpack.task_manager.max_workers`::
The maximum number of tasks that this Kibana instance will run simultaneously.  Defaults to 10.
Starting in 8.0, it will not be possible to set the value greater than 100.

`xpack.task_manager.monitored_stats_health_verbose_log.enabled`::
This flag will enable automatic warn and error logging if task manager self detects a performance issue, such as the time between when a task is scheduled to execute and when it actually executes. Defaults to false.

`xpack.task_manager.monitored_stats_health_verbose_log.warn_delayed_task_start_in_seconds`::
The amount of seconds we allow a task to delay before printing a warning server log.  Defaults to 60.

`xpack.task_manager.ephemeral_tasks.enabled`::
Enables a technical preview feature that executes a limited (and configurable) number of actions in the same task as the alert which triggered them.
These action tasks will reduce the latency of the time it takes an action to run after it's triggered, but are not persisted as SavedObjects.
These non-persisted action tasks have a risk that they won't be run at all if the Kibana instance running them exits unexpectedly. Defaults to false.

`xpack.task_manager.ephemeral_tasks.request_capacity`::
Sets the size of the ephemeral queue defined above. Defaults to 10.


[float]
[[task-manager-health-settings]]
==== Task Manager Health settings

Settings that configure the <<task-manager-health-monitoring>> endpoint.

`xpack.task_manager.monitored_task_execution_thresholds`::
Configures the threshold of failed task executions at which point the `warn` or
`error` health status is set under each task type execution status
(under `stats.runtime.value.execution.result_frequency_percent_as_number[${task type}].status`).
+
This setting allows configuration of both the default level and a
custom task type specific level. By default, this setting is configured to mark
the health of every task type as `warning` when it exceeds 80% failed executions,
and as `error` at 90%.
+
Custom configurations allow you to reduce this threshold to catch failures sooner
for task types that you might consider critical, such as alerting tasks.
+
This value can be set to any number between 0 to 100, and a threshold is hit
when the value *exceeds* this number. This means that you can avoid setting the
status to `error` by setting the threshold at 100, or hit `error` the moment
any task fails by setting the threshold to 0 (as it will exceed 0 once a
single failure occurs).

Commit message:

[ResponseOps][task manager] log event loop delay for tasks when over configured limit (#126300)
resolves https://github.com/elastic/kibana/issues/124366

Adds new task manager configuration keys.

- `xpack.task_manager.event_loop_delay.monitor` - whether to monitor
  event loop delay or not; added in case this specific monitoring
  causes other issues and we'd want to disable it.  We don't know
  of any cases where we'd need this today

- `xpack.task_manager.event_loop_delay.warn_threshold` - the number
  of milliseconds of event loop delay before logging a warning

This code uses the `perf_hooks.monitorEventLoopDelay()` API[1] to collect
the event loop delay while a task is running.

[1] https://nodejs.org/api/perf_hooks.html#perf_hooksmonitoreventloopdelayoptions

When a significant event loop delay is encountered, it's very likely
that other tasks running at the same time will be affected, and so
will also end up having a long event loop delay value, and warnings
will be logged on those.  Over time, though, tasks which have consistently
long event loop delays will outnumber those unfortunate peer tasks, and
be obvious from the volume in the logs.

To make it a bit easier to find these when viewing Kibana logs in Discover,
tags are added to the logged messages to make it easier to find them.  One
tag is `event-loop-blocked`, second is the task type, and the third is a string
consisting of the task type and task id.

(cherry picked from commit b028cf97ed9a554fef723be1f38ffabbfc41bac1)

docs/settings/task-manager-settings.asciidoc, after:

[role="xpack"]
[[task-manager-settings-kb]]
=== Task Manager settings in {kib}
++++
<titleabbrev>Task Manager settings</titleabbrev>
++++

Task Manager runs background tasks by polling for work on an interval.  You can configure its behavior to tune for performance and throughput.

[float]
[[task-manager-settings]]
==== Task Manager settings



`xpack.task_manager.max_attempts`::
The maximum number of times a task will be attempted before being abandoned as failed.  Defaults to 3.

`xpack.task_manager.poll_interval`::
How often, in milliseconds, the task manager will look for more work.  Defaults to 3000 and cannot be lower than 100.

`xpack.task_manager.request_capacity`::
How many requests can Task Manager buffer before it rejects new requests.  Defaults to 1000.

`xpack.task_manager.max_workers`::
The maximum number of tasks that this Kibana instance will run simultaneously.  Defaults to 10.
Starting in 8.0, it will not be possible to set the value greater than 100.

`xpack.task_manager.monitored_stats_health_verbose_log.enabled`::
This flag will enable automatic warn and error logging if task manager self detects a performance issue, such as the time between when a task is scheduled to execute and when it actually executes. Defaults to false.

`xpack.task_manager.monitored_stats_health_verbose_log.warn_delayed_task_start_in_seconds`::
The amount of seconds we allow a task to delay before printing a warning server log.  Defaults to 60.

`xpack.task_manager.ephemeral_tasks.enabled`::
Enables a technical preview feature that executes a limited (and configurable) number of actions in the same task as the alert which triggered them.
These action tasks will reduce the latency of the time it takes an action to run after it's triggered, but are not persisted as SavedObjects.
These non-persisted action tasks have a risk that they won't be run at all if the Kibana instance running them exits unexpectedly. Defaults to false.

`xpack.task_manager.ephemeral_tasks.request_capacity`::
Sets the size of the ephemeral queue defined above. Defaults to 10.

`xpack.task_manager.event_loop_delay.monitor`::
Enables event loop delay monitoring, which will log a warning when a task causes an event loop delay which exceeds the `warn_threshold` setting.  Defaults to true.

`xpack.task_manager.event_loop_delay.warn_threshold`::
Sets the amount of event loop delay during a task execution which will cause a warning to be logged. Defaults to 5000 milliseconds (5 seconds).

[float]
[[task-manager-health-settings]]
==== Task Manager Health settings

Settings that configure the <<task-manager-health-monitoring>> endpoint.

`xpack.task_manager.monitored_task_execution_thresholds`::
Configures the threshold of failed task executions at which point the `warn` or
`error` health status is set under each task type execution status
(under `stats.runtime.value.execution.result_frequency_percent_as_number[${task type}].status`).
+
This setting allows configuration of both the default level and a
custom task type specific level. By default, this setting is configured to mark
the health of every task type as `warning` when it exceeds 80% failed executions,
and as `error` at 90%.
+
Custom configurations allow you to reduce this threshold to catch failures sooner
for task types that you might consider critical, such as alerting tasks.
+
This value can be set to any number between 0 to 100, and a threshold is hit
when the value *exceeds* this number. This means that you can avoid setting the
status to `error` by setting the threshold at 100, or hit `error` the moment
any task fails by setting the threshold to 0 (as it will exceed 0 once a
single failure occurs).
