docs/api/actions-and-connectors/create.asciidoc, before:

[[create-connector-api]]
== Create connector API
++++
<titleabbrev>Create connector</titleabbrev>
++++

Creates a connector.

[[create-connector-api-request]]
=== {api-request-title}

`POST <kibana host>:<port>/api/actions/connector`

`POST <kibana host>:<port>/s/<space_id>/api/actions/connector`

=== {api-prereq-title}

You must have `all` privileges for the *{connectors-feature}* feature in the
*Management* section of the <<kibana-feature-privileges,{kib} feature privileges>>.

[[create-connector-api-path-params]]
=== {api-path-parms-title}

`space_id`::
  (Optional, string) An identifier for the space. If `space_id` is not provided
  in the URL, the default space is used.

[role="child_attributes"]
[[create-connector-api-request-body]]
=== {api-request-body-title}

`config`::
(Required^*^, object) The configuration for the connector. Configuration properties
vary depending on the connector type. For example:
+
--
// tag::connector-config[]
.Config properties
[%collapsible%open]
====

.{ibm-r} connectors
[%collapsible%open]
=====
`apiUrl`::
(Required, string) The {ibm-r} instance URL.

`orgId`::
(Required, string) The {ibm-r} organization ID.

For more information, refer to <<resilient-action-type>>.
=====

.Index connectors
[%collapsible%open]
=====

`executionTimeField`::
(Optional, string) Specifies a field that will contain the time the alert
condition was detected. The default value is `null`.

`index`::
(Required, string) The {es} index to be written to.

`refresh`::
(Optional, boolean) The {ref}/docs-refresh.html[refresh] policy for the write
request. The default value is `false`.

For more information, refer to <<index-action-type>>.
=====

.{jira} connectors
[%collapsible%open]
=====

`apiUrl`::
(Required, string) The {jira} instance URL.

`projectKey`::
(Required, string) The {jira} project key.

For more information, refer to <<jira-action-type>>.
=====

.Opsgenie connectors
[%collapsible%open]
=====

`apiUrl`::
(Required, string) The Opsgenie URL. For example, `https://api.opsgenie.com` or
`https://api.eu.opsgenie.com`. If you are using the `xpack.actions.allowedHosts`
setting, make sure the hostname is added to the allowed hosts.

For more information, refer to <<opsgenie-action-type>>.
=====

.{sn-itom}, {sn-itsm}, and {sn-sir} connectors
[%collapsible%open]
=====
`apiUrl`::
(Required, string) The {sn} instance URL.

`clientId`::
(Required^*^, string) The client ID assigned to your OAuth application. This
property is required when `isOAuth` is `true`.

`isOAuth`::
(Optional, string) The type of authentication to use. The default value is
`false`, which means basic authentication is used instead of open authorization
(OAuth).

`jwtKeyId`::
(Required^*^, string) The key identifier assigned to the JWT verifier map of
your OAuth application. This property is required when `isOAuth` is `true`.

`userIdentifierValue`::
(Required^*^, string) The identifier to use for OAuth authentication. This
identifier should be the user field you selected when you created an OAuth
JWT API endpoint for external clients in your {sn} instance. For example, if
the selected user field is `Email`, the user identifier should be the user's
email address. This property is required when `isOAuth` is `true`.

`usesTableApi`::
(Optional, string) Determines whether the connector uses the Table API or the
Import Set API. This property is supported only for {sn-itsm} and {sn-sir}
connectors.
+
NOTE: If this property is set to false, the Elastic application should be
installed in {sn}.
=====

.{swimlane} connectors
[%collapsible%open]
=====
`apiUrl`::
(Required, string) The {swimlane} instance URL.

`appId`::
(Required, string) The {swimlane} application ID.

`connectorType`::
(Required, String) The type of the connector. Valid values are: `all`, `alerts`, `cases`.

`mappings`::
(Optional, object) The field mapping.
+
.Mappings properties
[%collapsible%open]
======

`alertIdConfig`:::
(Optional, object) Mapping for the alert ID.

`fieldType`::::
(Required, object) The type of the field in {swimlane}.

`id`::::
(Required, string) The id of the field in {swimlane}.

`key`::::
(Required, string) The key of the field in {swimlane}.

`name`::::
(Required, string) The name of the field in {swimlane}.

`caseIdConfig`:::
(Optional, object) Mapping for the case ID.

`fieldType`::::
(Required, object) The type of the field in {swimlane}.

`id`::::
(Required, string) The id of the field in {swimlane}.

`key`::::
(Required, string) The key of the field in {swimlane}.

`name`::::
(Required, string) The name of the field in {swimlane}.

`caseNameConfig`:::
(Optional, object) Mapping for the case name.

`fieldType`::::
(Required, object) The type of the field in {swimlane}.

`id`::::
(Required, string) The id of the field in {swimlane}.

`key`::::
(Required, string) The key of the field in {swimlane}.

`name`::::
(Required, string) The name of the field in {swimlane}.

`commentsConfig`:::
(Optional, object) Mapping for the case comments.

`fieldType`::::
(Required, object) The type of the field in {swimlane}.

`id`::::
(Required, string) The id of the field in {swimlane}.

`key`::::
(Required, string) The key of the field in {swimlane}.

`name`::::
(Required, string) The name of the field in {swimlane}.

`descriptionConfig`:::
(Optional, object) Mapping for the case description.

`fieldType`::::
(Required, object) The type of the field in {swimlane}.

`id`::::
(Required, string) The id of the field in {swimlane}.

`key`::::
(Required, string) The key of the field in {swimlane}.

`name`::::
(Required, string) The name of the field in {swimlane}.

`ruleNameConfig`:::
(Optional, object) Mapping for the name of the alert's rule.

`fieldType`::::
(Required, Object) The type of the field in {swimlane}.

`id`::::
(Required, string) The id of the field in {swimlane}.

`key`::::
(Required, string) The key of the field in {swimlane}.

`name`::::
(Required, string) The name of the field in {swimlane}.

`severityConfig`:::
(Optional, object) Mapping for the severity.

`fieldType`::::
(Required, object) The type of the field in {swimlane}.

`id`::::
(Required, string) The id of the field in {swimlane}.

`key`::::
(Required, string) The key of the field in {swimlane}.

`name`::::
(Required, string) The name of the field in {swimlane}.

======
For more information, refer to <<swimlane-action-type>>.
=====

.{webhook-cm} connectors
[%collapsible%open]
=====

`createCommentJson`::
(Optional, string) A JSON payload sent to the create comment URL to create a
case comment. You can use variables to add Kibana Cases data to the payload. The
required variable is `case.comment`. For example:
+
[source,json]
----
{
  "body": {{{case.comment}}}
}
----
+
NOTE: Due to Mustache template variables (the text enclosed in triple braces,
for example, `{{{case.title}}}`), the JSON is not validated when you create the
connector. The JSON is validated once the Mustache variables have been placed
when the REST method runs. Manually ensure that the JSON is valid,
disregarding the Mustache variables, so the later validation will pass.

`createCommentMethod`::
(Optional, string) The REST API HTTP request method to create a case comment in
the third-party system. Valid values are either `patch`, `post`, and `put`. The
default value is `put`.

`createCommentUrl`::
(Optional, string) The REST API URL to create a case comment by ID in the
third-party system. You can use a variable to add the external system ID to the
URL. If you are using the `xpack.actions.allowedHosts` setting, make sure the
hostname is added to the allowed hosts. For example:
+
[source,text]
----
https://testing-jira.atlassian.net/rest/api/2/issue/{{{external.system.id}}}/comment
----

`createIncidentJson`::
(Required, string) A JSON payload sent to the create case URL to create a case. You
can use variables to add case data to the payload. Required variables are
`case.title` and `case.description`. For example:
+
[source,json]
----
{
	"fields": {
	  "summary": {{{case.title}}},
	  "description": {{{case.description}}},
	  "labels": {{{case.tags}}}
	}
}
----
+
NOTE: Due to Mustache template variables (which is the text enclosed in triple
braces, for example, `{{{case.title}}}`), the JSON is not validated when you
create the connector. The JSON is validated after the Mustache variables have
been placed when REST method runs. Manually ensure that the JSON is valid to
avoid future validation errors; disregard Mustache variables during your review.

`createIncidentMethod`::
(Optional, string) The REST API HTTP request method to create a case in the
third-party system. Valid values are `patch`, `post`, and `put`. The default
value is `post`.

`createIncidentResponseKey`::
(Required, string) The JSON key in the create case response that contains the
external case ID.

`createIncidentUrl`::
(Required, string) The REST API URL to create a case in the third-party system.
If you are using the `xpack.actions.allowedHosts` setting, make sure the
hostname is added to the allowed hosts.

`getIncidentResponseExternalTitleKey`::
(Required, string) The JSON key in get case response that contains the external
case title.

`getIncidentUrl`::
(Required, string) The REST API URL to get the case by ID from the third-party
system. If you are using the `xpack.actions.allowedHosts` setting, make sure the
hostname is added to the allowed hosts. You can use a variable to add the
external system ID to the URL. For example:
+
[source,text]
----
https://testing-jira.atlassian.net/rest/api/2/issue/{{{external.system.id}}}
----
+
NOTE: Due to Mustache template variables (the text enclosed in triple braces,
for example, `{{{case.title}}}`), the JSON is not validated when you create the
connector. The JSON is validated after the Mustache variables have been placed
when REST method runs. Manually ensure that the JSON is valid, disregarding the
Mustache variables, so the later validation will pass.

`hasAuth`::
(Optional, boolean) If true, a username and password for login type authentication
must be provided. The default value is `true`.

`headers`::
(Optional, string) A set of key-value pairs sent as headers with the request
URLs for the create case, update case, get case, and create comment methods.

`updateIncidentJson`::
(Required, string) The JSON payload sent to the update case URL to update the
case. You can use variables to add Kibana Cases data to the payload. Required
variables are `case.title` and `case.description`. For example:
+
[source,json]
----
{
	"fields": {
	  "summary": {{{case.title}}},
	  "description": {{{case.description}}},
	  "labels": {{{case.tags}}}
	}
}
----
+
NOTE: Due to Mustache template variables (which is the text enclosed in triple
braces, for example, `{{{case.title}}}`), the JSON is not validated when you
create the connector. The JSON is validated after the Mustache variables have
been placed when REST method runs. Manually ensure that the JSON is valid to
avoid future validation errors; disregard Mustache variables during your review.

`updateIncidentMethod`::
(Optional, string) The REST API HTTP request method to update the case in the
third-party system. Valid values are `patch`, `post`, and `put`. The default
value is `put`.

`updateIncidentUrl`::
(Required, string) The REST API URL to update the case by ID in the third-party
system. You can use a variable to add the external system ID to the URL. If you
are using the `xpack.actions.allowedHosts` setting, make sure the hostname is
added to the allowed hosts. For example:
+
[source,text]
----
https://testing-jira.atlassian.net/rest/api/2/issue/{{{external.system.ID}}}
----
     
`viewIncidentUrl`::
(Required, string) The URL to view the case in the external system. You can use
variables to add the external system ID or external system title to the URL.For example:
+
[source,text]
----
https://testing-jira.atlassian.net/browse/{{{external.system.title}}}
----

For more information, refer to <<cases-webhook-action-type>>.
=====

This object is not required for server log connectors.

For more configuration properties, refer to <<action-types>>.
====
// end::connector-config[]  
--

`connector_type_id`::
(Required, string) The connector type ID for the connector. For example,
`.cases-webhook`, `.index`, `.jira`, `.opsgenie`, `.server-log`, or `.servicenow-itom`.

`name`::
(Required, string) The display name for the connector.

`secrets`::
(Required^*^, object) The secrets configuration for the connector. Secrets
configuration properties vary depending on the connector type. For information
about the secrets configuration properties, refer to <<action-types>>.
+
--
WARNING: Remember these values. You must provide them each time you call the <<update-connector-api, update>> API.

// tag::connector-secrets[]
.Secrets properties
[%collapsible%open]
====

.{ibm-r} connectors
[%collapsible%open]
=====
`apiKeyId`::
(Required, string) The authentication key ID for HTTP Basic authentication.

`apiKeySecret`::
(Required, string) The authentication key secret for HTTP Basic authentication.
=====

.{jira} connectors
[%collapsible%open]
=====
`apiToken`::
(Required, string) The {jira} API authentication token for HTTP basic
authentication.

`email`::
(Required, string) The account email for HTTP Basic authentication.
=====

.Opsgenie connectors
[%collapsible%open]
=====
`apiKey`::
(Required, string) The Opsgenie API authentication key for HTTP Basic
authentication.
=====

.{sn-itom}, {sn-itsm}, and {sn-sir} connectors
[%collapsible%open]
=====
`clientSecret`::
(Required^*^, string) The client secret assigned to your OAuth application. This
property is required when `isOAuth` is `true`.

`password`::
(Required^*^, string) The password for HTTP basic authentication. This property
is required when `isOAuth` is `false`.

`privateKey`::
(Required^*^, string) The RSA private key that you created for use in {sn}. This
property is required when `isOAuth` is `true`.

privateKeyPassword::
(Required^*^, string) The password for the RSA private key. This property is
required when `isOAuth` is `true` and you set a password on your private key.

`username`::
(Required^*^, string) The username for HTTP basic authentication. This property
is required when `isOAuth` is `false`.

=====

.{swimlane} connectors
[%collapsible%open]
=====
`apiToken`::
(string) {swimlane} API authentication token.
=====

.{webhook-cm} connectors
[%collapsible%open]
=====
`password`::
(Optional, string) The password for HTTP basic authentication.

`user`::
(Optional, string) The username for HTTP basic authentication.
=====
This object is not required for index or server log connectors.
====
// end::connector-secrets[]  
--

[[create-connector-api-request-codes]]
=== {api-response-codes-title}

`200`::
    Indicates a successful call.

[[create-connector-api-example]]
=== {api-examples-title}

Create an index connector:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
POST api/actions/connector
{
  "name": "my-connector",
  "connector_type_id": ".index",
  "config": {
    "index": "test-index"
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// KIBANA

The API returns the following:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "id": "c55b6eb0-6bad-11eb-9f3b-611eebc6c3ad",
  "connector_type_id": ".index",
  "name": "my-connector",
  "config": {
    "index": "test-index",
    "refresh": false,
    "executionTimeField": null
  },
  "is_preconfigured": false,
  "is_deprecated": false,
  "is_missing_secrets": false
}
--------------------------------------------------

Create a {jira} connector:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
POST api/actions/connector
{
  "name": "my-jira-connector",
  "connector_type_id": ".jira",
  "config": {
    "apiUrl": "https://elastic.atlassian.net",
    "projectKey": "ES"
  },
  "secrets": {
    "email": "myEmail",
    "apiToken": "myToken"
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// KIBANA

Create an {ibm-r} connector:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
POST api/actions/connector
{
  "name": "my-resilient-connector",
  "connector_type_id": ".resilient",
  "config": {
    "apiUrl": "https://elastic.resilient.net",
    "orgId": "201"
  },
  "secrets": {
    "apiKeyId": "myKey",
    "apiKeySecret": "myToken"
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// KIBANA

Create an {sn-itom} connector that uses open authorization:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
POST api/actions/connector
{
  "name": "my-itom-connector",
  "connector_type_id": ".servicenow-itom",
  "config": {
    "apiUrl": "https://exmaple.service-now.com/",
    "clientId": "abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyzabcdef",
    "isOAuth": "true",
    "jwtKeyId": "fedcbazyxwvutsrqponmlkjihgfedcba",
    "userIdentifierValue": "testuser@email.com"
  },
  "secrets": {
    "clientSecret": "secretsecret",
    "privateKey": "-----BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY-----\nprivatekeyhere\n-----END RSA PRIVATE KEY-----"
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// KIBANA

Create a {swimlane} connector:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
POST api/actions/connector
{
   "name":"my-swimlane-connector",
   "connector_type_id": ".swimlane",
   "config":{
      "connectorType":"all",
      "mappings":{
         "ruleNameConfig":{
            "id":"b6fst",
            "name":"Alert Name",
            "key":"alert-name",
            "fieldType":"text"
         }
      },
      "appId":"myAppID",
      "apiUrl":"https://myswimlaneinstance.com"
   },
   "secrets":{
      "apiToken":"myToken"
   }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// KIBANA

Commit message:

[DOCS] Create open API specification for create/update connector (#148691)
(cherry picked from commit 4f6d0dff28221d449cc7f1631794bd7a619d8033)

docs/api/actions-and-connectors/create.asciidoc, after:

[[create-connector-api]]
== Create connector API
++++
<titleabbrev>Create connector</titleabbrev>
++++

Creates a connector.

[NOTE]
====
For the most up-to-date API details, refer to the
{kib-repo}/tree/{branch}/x-pack/plugins/actions/docs/openapi[open API specification]. For a preview, check out <<connector-apis>>.
====

[[create-connector-api-request]]
=== {api-request-title}

`POST <kibana host>:<port>/api/actions/connector`

`POST <kibana host>:<port>/s/<space_id>/api/actions/connector`

=== {api-prereq-title}

You must have `all` privileges for the *{connectors-feature}* feature in the
*Management* section of the <<kibana-feature-privileges,{kib} feature privileges>>.

[[create-connector-api-path-params]]
=== {api-path-parms-title}

`space_id`::
  (Optional, string) An identifier for the space. If `space_id` is not provided
  in the URL, the default space is used.

[role="child_attributes"]
[[create-connector-api-request-body]]
=== {api-request-body-title}

`config`::
(Required^*^, object) The configuration for the connector. Configuration properties
vary depending on the connector type. For example:
+
--
// tag::connector-config[]
.Config properties
[%collapsible%open]
====

.{ibm-r} connectors
[%collapsible%open]
=====
`apiUrl`::
(Required, string) The {ibm-r} instance URL.

`orgId`::
(Required, string) The {ibm-r} organization ID.

For more information, refer to <<resilient-action-type>>.
=====

.Index connectors
[%collapsible%open]
=====

`executionTimeField`::
(Optional, string) Specifies a field that will contain the time the alert
condition was detected. The default value is `null`.

`index`::
(Required, string) The {es} index to be written to.

`refresh`::
(Optional, boolean) The {ref}/docs-refresh.html[refresh] policy for the write
request. The default value is `false`.

For more information, refer to <<index-action-type>>.
=====

.{jira} connectors
[%collapsible%open]
=====

`apiUrl`::
(Required, string) The {jira} instance URL.

`projectKey`::
(Required, string) The {jira} project key.

For more information, refer to <<jira-action-type>>.
=====

.Opsgenie connectors
[%collapsible%open]
=====

`apiUrl`::
(Required, string) The Opsgenie URL. For example, `https://api.opsgenie.com` or
`https://api.eu.opsgenie.com`. If you are using the `xpack.actions.allowedHosts`
setting, make sure the hostname is added to the allowed hosts.

For more information, refer to <<opsgenie-action-type>>.
=====

.{sn-itom}, {sn-itsm}, and {sn-sir} connectors
[%collapsible%open]
=====
`apiUrl`::
(Required, string) The {sn} instance URL.

`clientId`::
(Required^*^, string) The client ID assigned to your OAuth application. This
property is required when `isOAuth` is `true`.

`isOAuth`::
(Optional, string) The type of authentication to use. The default value is
`false`, which means basic authentication is used instead of open authorization
(OAuth).

`jwtKeyId`::
(Required^*^, string) The key identifier assigned to the JWT verifier map of
your OAuth application. This property is required when `isOAuth` is `true`.

`userIdentifierValue`::
(Required^*^, string) The identifier to use for OAuth authentication. This
identifier should be the user field you selected when you created an OAuth
JWT API endpoint for external clients in your {sn} instance. For example, if
the selected user field is `Email`, the user identifier should be the user's
email address. This property is required when `isOAuth` is `true`.

`usesTableApi`::
(Optional, boolean) Determines whether the connector uses the Table API or the
Import Set API. This property is supported only for {sn-itsm} and {sn-sir}
connectors. The default value is `true`.
+
NOTE: If this property is set to false, the Elastic application should be
installed in {sn}.
=====

.{swimlane} connectors
[%collapsible%open]
=====
`apiUrl`::
(Required, string) The {swimlane} instance URL.

`appId`::
(Required, string) The {swimlane} application ID.

`connectorType`::
(Required, String) The type of the connector. Valid values are: `all`, `alerts`, `cases`.

`mappings`::
(Optional, object) The field mapping.
+
.Mappings properties
[%collapsible%open]
======

`alertIdConfig`:::
(Optional, object) Mapping for the alert ID.

`fieldType`::::
(Required, string) The type of the field in {swimlane}.

`id`::::
(Required, string) The id of the field in {swimlane}.

`key`::::
(Required, string) The key of the field in {swimlane}.

`name`::::
(Required, string) The name of the field in {swimlane}.

`caseIdConfig`:::
(Optional, object) Mapping for the case ID.

`fieldType`::::
(Required, string) The type of the field in {swimlane}.

`id`::::
(Required, string) The id of the field in {swimlane}.

`key`::::
(Required, string) The key of the field in {swimlane}.

`name`::::
(Required, string) The name of the field in {swimlane}.

`caseNameConfig`:::
(Optional, object) Mapping for the case name.

`fieldType`::::
(Required, string) The type of the field in {swimlane}.

`id`::::
(Required, string) The id of the field in {swimlane}.

`key`::::
(Required, string) The key of the field in {swimlane}.

`name`::::
(Required, string) The name of the field in {swimlane}.

`commentsConfig`:::
(Optional, object) Mapping for the case comments.

`fieldType`::::
(Required, string) The type of the field in {swimlane}.

`id`::::
(Required, string) The id of the field in {swimlane}.

`key`::::
(Required, string) The key of the field in {swimlane}.

`name`::::
(Required, string) The name of the field in {swimlane}.

`descriptionConfig`:::
(Optional, object) Mapping for the case description.

`fieldType`::::
(Required, string) The type of the field in {swimlane}.

`id`::::
(Required, string) The id of the field in {swimlane}.

`key`::::
(Required, string) The key of the field in {swimlane}.

`name`::::
(Required, string) The name of the field in {swimlane}.

`ruleNameConfig`:::
(Optional, object) Mapping for the name of the alert's rule.

`fieldType`::::
(Required, string) The type of the field in {swimlane}.

`id`::::
(Required, string) The id of the field in {swimlane}.

`key`::::
(Required, string) The key of the field in {swimlane}.

`name`::::
(Required, string) The name of the field in {swimlane}.

`severityConfig`:::
(Optional, object) Mapping for the severity.

`fieldType`::::
(Required, string) The type of the field in {swimlane}.

`id`::::
(Required, string) The id of the field in {swimlane}.

`key`::::
(Required, string) The key of the field in {swimlane}.

`name`::::
(Required, string) The name of the field in {swimlane}.

======
For more information, refer to <<swimlane-action-type>>.
=====

.{webhook-cm} connectors
[%collapsible%open]
=====

`createCommentJson`::
(Optional, string) A JSON payload sent to the create comment URL to create a
case comment. You can use variables to add Kibana Cases data to the payload. The
required variable is `case.comment`. For example:
+
[source,json]
----
{
  "body": {{{case.comment}}}
}
----
+
NOTE: Due to Mustache template variables (the text enclosed in triple braces,
for example, `{{{case.title}}}`), the JSON is not validated when you create the
connector. The JSON is validated once the Mustache variables have been placed
when the REST method runs. Manually ensure that the JSON is valid,
disregarding the Mustache variables, so the later validation will pass.

`createCommentMethod`::
(Optional, string) The REST API HTTP request method to create a case comment in
the third-party system. Valid values are either `patch`, `post`, and `put`. The
default value is `put`.

`createCommentUrl`::
(Optional, string) The REST API URL to create a case comment by ID in the
third-party system. You can use a variable to add the external system ID to the
URL. If you are using the `xpack.actions.allowedHosts` setting, make sure the
hostname is added to the allowed hosts. For example:
+
[source,text]
----
https://testing-jira.atlassian.net/rest/api/2/issue/{{{external.system.id}}}/comment
----

`createIncidentJson`::
(Required, string) A JSON payload sent to the create case URL to create a case. You
can use variables to add case data to the payload. Required variables are
`case.title` and `case.description`. For example:
+
[source,json]
----
{
	"fields": {
	  "summary": {{{case.title}}},
	  "description": {{{case.description}}},
	  "labels": {{{case.tags}}}
	}
}
----
+
NOTE: Due to Mustache template variables (which is the text enclosed in triple
braces, for example, `{{{case.title}}}`), the JSON is not validated when you
create the connector. The JSON is validated after the Mustache variables have
been placed when REST method runs. Manually ensure that the JSON is valid to
avoid future validation errors; disregard Mustache variables during your review.

`createIncidentMethod`::
(Optional, string) The REST API HTTP request method to create a case in the
third-party system. Valid values are `patch`, `post`, and `put`. The default
value is `post`.

`createIncidentResponseKey`::
(Required, string) The JSON key in the create case response that contains the
external case ID.

`createIncidentUrl`::
(Required, string) The REST API URL to create a case in the third-party system.
If you are using the `xpack.actions.allowedHosts` setting, make sure the
hostname is added to the allowed hosts.

`getIncidentResponseExternalTitleKey`::
(Required, string) The JSON key in get case response that contains the external
case title.

`getIncidentUrl`::
(Required, string) The REST API URL to get the case by ID from the third-party
system. If you are using the `xpack.actions.allowedHosts` setting, make sure the
hostname is added to the allowed hosts. You can use a variable to add the
external system ID to the URL. For example:
+
[source,text]
----
https://testing-jira.atlassian.net/rest/api/2/issue/{{{external.system.id}}}
----
+
NOTE: Due to Mustache template variables (the text enclosed in triple braces,
for example, `{{{case.title}}}`), the JSON is not validated when you create the
connector. The JSON is validated after the Mustache variables have been placed
when REST method runs. Manually ensure that the JSON is valid, disregarding the
Mustache variables, so the later validation will pass.

`hasAuth`::
(Optional, boolean) If true, a username and password for login type authentication
must be provided. The default value is `true`.

`headers`::
(Optional, string) A set of key-value pairs sent as headers with the request
URLs for the create case, update case, get case, and create comment methods.

`updateIncidentJson`::
(Required, string) The JSON payload sent to the update case URL to update the
case. You can use variables to add Kibana Cases data to the payload. Required
variables are `case.title` and `case.description`. For example:
+
[source,json]
----
{
	"fields": {
	  "summary": {{{case.title}}},
	  "description": {{{case.description}}},
	  "labels": {{{case.tags}}}
	}
}
----
+
NOTE: Due to Mustache template variables (which is the text enclosed in triple
braces, for example, `{{{case.title}}}`), the JSON is not validated when you
create the connector. The JSON is validated after the Mustache variables have
been placed when REST method runs. Manually ensure that the JSON is valid to
avoid future validation errors; disregard Mustache variables during your review.

`updateIncidentMethod`::
(Optional, string) The REST API HTTP request method to update the case in the
third-party system. Valid values are `patch`, `post`, and `put`. The default
value is `put`.

`updateIncidentUrl`::
(Required, string) The REST API URL to update the case by ID in the third-party
system. You can use a variable to add the external system ID to the URL. If you
are using the `xpack.actions.allowedHosts` setting, make sure the hostname is
added to the allowed hosts. For example:
+
[source,text]
----
https://testing-jira.atlassian.net/rest/api/2/issue/{{{external.system.ID}}}
----
     
`viewIncidentUrl`::
(Required, string) The URL to view the case in the external system. You can use
variables to add the external system ID or external system title to the URL.For example:
+
[source,text]
----
https://testing-jira.atlassian.net/browse/{{{external.system.title}}}
----

For more information, refer to <<cases-webhook-action-type>>.
=====

This object is not required for server log connectors.

For more configuration properties, refer to <<action-types>>.
====
// end::connector-config[]  
--

`connector_type_id`::
(Required, string) The connector type ID for the connector. For example,
`.cases-webhook`, `.index`, `.jira`, `.opsgenie`, `.server-log`, or `.servicenow-itom`.

`name`::
(Required, string) The display name for the connector.

`secrets`::
(Required^*^, object) The secrets configuration for the connector. Secrets
configuration properties vary depending on the connector type. For information
about the secrets configuration properties, refer to <<action-types>>.
+
--
WARNING: Remember these values. You must provide them each time you call the <<update-connector-api, update>> API.

// tag::connector-secrets[]
.Secrets properties
[%collapsible%open]
====

.{ibm-r} connectors
[%collapsible%open]
=====
`apiKeyId`::
(Required, string) The authentication key ID for HTTP Basic authentication.

`apiKeySecret`::
(Required, string) The authentication key secret for HTTP Basic authentication.
=====

.{jira} connectors
[%collapsible%open]
=====
`apiToken`::
(Required, string) The {jira} API authentication token for HTTP basic
authentication.

`email`::
(Required, string) The account email for HTTP Basic authentication.
=====

.Opsgenie connectors
[%collapsible%open]
=====
`apiKey`::
(Required, string) The Opsgenie API authentication key for HTTP Basic
authentication.
=====

.{sn-itom}, {sn-itsm}, and {sn-sir} connectors
[%collapsible%open]
=====
`clientSecret`::
(Required^*^, string) The client secret assigned to your OAuth application. This
property is required when `isOAuth` is `true`.

`password`::
(Required^*^, string) The password for HTTP basic authentication. This property
is required when `isOAuth` is `false`.

`privateKey`::
(Required^*^, string) The RSA private key that you created for use in {sn}. This
property is required when `isOAuth` is `true`.

privateKeyPassword::
(Required^*^, string) The password for the RSA private key. This property is
required when `isOAuth` is `true` and you set a password on your private key.

`username`::
(Required^*^, string) The username for HTTP basic authentication. This property
is required when `isOAuth` is `false`.

=====

.{swimlane} connectors
[%collapsible%open]
=====
`apiToken`::
(string) {swimlane} API authentication token.
=====

.{webhook-cm} connectors
[%collapsible%open]
=====
`password`::
(Optional, string) The password for HTTP basic authentication.

`user`::
(Optional, string) The username for HTTP basic authentication.
=====
This object is not required for index or server log connectors.
====
// end::connector-secrets[]  
--

[[create-connector-api-request-codes]]
=== {api-response-codes-title}

`200`::
    Indicates a successful call.

[[create-connector-api-example]]
=== {api-examples-title}

Create an index connector:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
POST api/actions/connector
{
  "name": "my-connector",
  "connector_type_id": ".index",
  "config": {
    "index": "test-index"
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// KIBANA

The API returns the following:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "id": "c55b6eb0-6bad-11eb-9f3b-611eebc6c3ad",
  "connector_type_id": ".index",
  "name": "my-connector",
  "config": {
    "index": "test-index",
    "refresh": false,
    "executionTimeField": null
  },
  "is_preconfigured": false,
  "is_deprecated": false,
  "is_missing_secrets": false
}
--------------------------------------------------

Create a {jira} connector:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
POST api/actions/connector
{
  "name": "my-jira-connector",
  "connector_type_id": ".jira",
  "config": {
    "apiUrl": "https://elastic.atlassian.net",
    "projectKey": "ES"
  },
  "secrets": {
    "email": "myEmail",
    "apiToken": "myToken"
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// KIBANA

Create an {ibm-r} connector:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
POST api/actions/connector
{
  "name": "my-resilient-connector",
  "connector_type_id": ".resilient",
  "config": {
    "apiUrl": "https://elastic.resilient.net",
    "orgId": "201"
  },
  "secrets": {
    "apiKeyId": "myKey",
    "apiKeySecret": "myToken"
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// KIBANA

Create an {sn-itom} connector that uses open authorization:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
POST api/actions/connector
{
  "name": "my-itom-connector",
  "connector_type_id": ".servicenow-itom",
  "config": {
    "apiUrl": "https://exmaple.service-now.com/",
    "clientId": "abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyzabcdef",
    "isOAuth": "true",
    "jwtKeyId": "fedcbazyxwvutsrqponmlkjihgfedcba",
    "userIdentifierValue": "testuser@email.com"
  },
  "secrets": {
    "clientSecret": "secretsecret",
    "privateKey": "-----BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY-----\nprivatekeyhere\n-----END RSA PRIVATE KEY-----"
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// KIBANA

Create a {swimlane} connector:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
POST api/actions/connector
{
   "name":"my-swimlane-connector",
   "connector_type_id": ".swimlane",
   "config":{
      "connectorType":"all",
      "mappings":{
         "ruleNameConfig":{
            "id":"b6fst",
            "name":"Alert Name",
            "key":"alert-name",
            "fieldType":"text"
         }
      },
      "appId":"myAppID",
      "apiUrl":"https://myswimlaneinstance.com"
   },
   "secrets":{
      "apiToken":"myToken"
   }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// KIBANA
