docs/api/actions-and-connectors/update.asciidoc, before:

[[update-connector-api]]
== Update connector API
++++
<titleabbrev>Update connector</titleabbrev>
++++

Updates the attributes for a connector.

[[update-connector-api-request]]
=== {api-request-title}

`PUT <kibana host>:<port>/api/actions/connector/<id>`

`PUT <kibana host>:<port>/s/<space_id>/api/actions/connector/<id>`

[discrete]
=== {api-prereq-title}

You must have `all` privileges for the *{connectors-feature}* feature in the
*Management* section of the
<<kibana-feature-privileges,{kib} feature privileges>>.

[[update-connector-api-params]]
=== {api-path-parms-title}

`id`::
  (Required, string) The ID of the connector.

`space_id`::
  (Optional, string) An identifier for the space. If `space_id` is not provided in the URL, the default space is used.

[role="child_attributes"]
[[update-connector-api-request-body]]
=== {api-request-body-title}

`config`::
(Required, object) The new connector configuration. Configuration properties
vary depending on the connector type. For example:
+
--
include::create.asciidoc[tag=connector-config]
--

`name`::
(Required, string) The new name of the connector.

`secrets`::
(Required^*^, object) The updated secrets configuration for the connector. Secrets
properties vary depending on the connector type. For information about the
secrets configuration properties, refer to
<<action-types,Action and connector types>>.
+
--
include::create.asciidoc[tag=connector-secrets]
--

[[update-connector-api-codes]]
=== {api-response-codes-title}

`200`::
    Indicates a successful call.

[[update-connector-api-example]]
=== {api-examples-title}

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
PUT api/actions/connector/c55b6eb0-6bad-11eb-9f3b-611eebc6c3ad
{
  "name": "updated-connector",
  "config": {
    "index": "updated-index"
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// KIBANA

The API returns the following:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "id": "c55b6eb0-6bad-11eb-9f3b-611eebc6c3ad",
  "connector_type_id": ".index",
  "name": "updated-connector",
  "config": {
    "index": "updated-index",
    "refresh": false,
    "executionTimeField": null
  },
  "is_preconfigured": false,
  "is_deprecated": false,
  "is_missing_secrets": false
}
--------------------------------------------------

Commit message:

[DOCS] Create open API specification for create/update connector (#148691)
(cherry picked from commit 4f6d0dff28221d449cc7f1631794bd7a619d8033)

docs/api/actions-and-connectors/update.asciidoc, after:

[[update-connector-api]]
== Update connector API
++++
<titleabbrev>Update connector</titleabbrev>
++++

Updates the attributes for a connector.

[NOTE]
====
For the most up-to-date API details, refer to the
{kib-repo}/tree/{branch}/x-pack/plugins/actions/docs/openapi[open API specification]. For a preview, check out <<connector-apis>>.
====

[[update-connector-api-request]]
=== {api-request-title}

`PUT <kibana host>:<port>/api/actions/connector/<id>`

`PUT <kibana host>:<port>/s/<space_id>/api/actions/connector/<id>`

[discrete]
=== {api-prereq-title}

You must have `all` privileges for the *{connectors-feature}* feature in the
*Management* section of the
<<kibana-feature-privileges,{kib} feature privileges>>.

[[update-connector-api-params]]
=== {api-path-parms-title}

`id`::
  (Required, string) The ID of the connector.

`space_id`::
  (Optional, string) An identifier for the space. If `space_id` is not provided in the URL, the default space is used.

[role="child_attributes"]
[[update-connector-api-request-body]]
=== {api-request-body-title}

`config`::
(Required, object) The new connector configuration. Configuration properties
vary depending on the connector type. For example:
+
--
include::create.asciidoc[tag=connector-config]
--

`name`::
(Required, string) The new name of the connector.

`secrets`::
(Required^*^, object) The updated secrets configuration for the connector. Secrets
properties vary depending on the connector type. For information about the
secrets configuration properties, refer to
<<action-types,Action and connector types>>.
+
--
include::create.asciidoc[tag=connector-secrets]
--

[[update-connector-api-codes]]
=== {api-response-codes-title}

`200`::
    Indicates a successful call.

[[update-connector-api-example]]
=== {api-examples-title}

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
PUT api/actions/connector/c55b6eb0-6bad-11eb-9f3b-611eebc6c3ad
{
  "name": "updated-connector",
  "config": {
    "index": "updated-index"
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// KIBANA

The API returns the following:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "id": "c55b6eb0-6bad-11eb-9f3b-611eebc6c3ad",
  "connector_type_id": ".index",
  "name": "updated-connector",
  "config": {
    "index": "updated-index",
    "refresh": false,
    "executionTimeField": null
  },
  "is_preconfigured": false,
  "is_deprecated": false,
  "is_missing_secrets": false
}
--------------------------------------------------
